<h2>THE LAW OF THE YUKON</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 33em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">This</span> is the law of the Yukon, and ever she makes it plain:<br/></span>
<span class="i0">"Send not your foolish and feeble; send me your strong and your sane.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Strong for the red rage of battle; sane, for I harry them sore;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Send me men girt for the combat, men who are grit to the core;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Swift as the panther in triumph, fierce as the bear in defeat,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Sired of a bulldog parent, steeled in the furnace heat.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Send me the best of your breeding, lend me your chosen ones;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Them will I take to my bosom, them will I call my sons;<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_12" name="Page_12">[12]</a></span>
<span class="i0">Them will I gild with my treasure, them will I glut with my meat;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">But the others—the misfits, the failures—I trample under my feet.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Dissolute, damned, and despairful, crippled and palsied and slain,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Ye would send me the spawn of your gutters—Go! take back your spawn again.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">"Wild and wide are my borders, stern as death is my sway;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">From my ruthless throne I have ruled alone for a million years and a day;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Hugging my mighty treasure, waiting for man to come:<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Till he swept like a turbid torrent, and after him swept—the scum.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The pallid pimp of the dead-line, the enervate of the pen,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">One by one I weeded them out, for all that I sought was—Men.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">One by one I dismayed them, frighting them sore with my glooms;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">One by one I betrayed them unto my manifold dooms.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Drowned them like rats in my rivers, starved them like curs on my plains,<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_13" name="Page_13">[13]</a></span>
<span class="i0">Rotted the flesh that was left them, poisoned the blood in their veins;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Burst with my winter upon them, searing forever their sight,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Lashed them with fungus-white faces, whimpering wild in the night;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Staggering blind through the storm-whirl, stumbling mad through the snow,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Frozen stiff in the ice pack, brittle and bent like a bow;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Featureless, formless, forsaken, scented by wolves in their flight,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Left for the wind to make music through ribs that are glittering white;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Gnawing the black crust of failure, searching the pit of despair,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Crooking the toe in the trigger, trying to patter a prayer;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Going outside with an escort, raving with lips all afoam;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Writing a cheque for a million, drivelling feebly of home;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Lost like a louse in the burning ... or else in tented town<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Seeking a drunkard's solace, sinking and sinking down;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Steeped in the slime at the bottom, dead to a decent world,<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_14" name="Page_14">[14]</a></span>
<span class="i0">Lost 'mid the human flotsam, far on the frontier hurled;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">In the camp at the bend of the river, with its dozen saloons aglare,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Its gambling dens a-riot, its gramophones all a-blare;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Crimped with the crimes of a city, sin-ridden and bridled with lies,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">In the hush of my mountained vastness, in the flush of my midnight skies.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Plague-spots, yet tools of my purpose, so natheless I suffer them thrive,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Crushing my Weak in their clutches, that only my Strong may survive.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">"But the others, the men of my mettle, the men who would 'stablish my fame,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Unto its ultimate issue, winning me honour, not shame;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Searching my uttermost valleys, fighting each step as they go,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Shooting the wrath of my rapids, scaling my ramparts of snow;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Ripping the guts of my mountains, looting the beds of my creeks,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Them will I take to my bosom, and speak as a mother speaks.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_15" name="Page_15">[15]</a></span>
<span class="i0">I am the land that listens, I am the land that broods;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Steeped in eternal beauty, crystalline waters and woods.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Long have I waited lonely, shunned as a thing accurst,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Monstrous, moody, pathetic, the last of the lands and the first;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Visioning camp-fires at twilight, sad with a longing forlorn,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Feeling my womb o'er-pregnant with the seed of cities unborn.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Wild and wide are my borders, stern as death is my sway,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And I wait for the men who will win me—and I will not be won in a day;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And I will not be won by weaklings, subtile, suave, and mild,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">But by men with the hearts of vikings, and the simple faith of a child;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Desperate, strong, and resistless, unthrottled by fear or defeat,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Them will I gild with my treasure, them will I glut with my meat.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">"Lofty I stand from each sister land, patient and wearily wise,<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_16" name="Page_16">[16]</a></span>
<span class="i0">With the weight of a world of sadness in my quiet, passionless eyes;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Dreaming alone of a people, dreaming alone of a day,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">When men shall not rape my riches, and curse me and go away;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Making a bawd of my bounty, fouling the hand that gave—<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Till I rise in my wrath and I sweep on their path and I stamp them into a grave.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Dreaming of men who will bless me, of women esteeming me good,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Of children born in my borders, of radiant motherhood;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Of cities leaping to stature, of fame like a flag unfurled,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">As I pour the tide of my riches in the eager lap of the world."<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">This is the Law of the Yukon, that only the Strong shall thrive;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">That surely the Weak shall perish, and only the Fit survive.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Dissolute, damned, and despairful, crippled and palsied and slain,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">This is the Will of the Yukon,—Lo! how she makes it plain!<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_17" name="Page_17">[17]</a></span></p>
<h2>THE PARSON'S SON</h2>
<div class="poem"><div class="istanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">This</span> is the song of the parson's son, as he squats in his shack alone,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">On the wild, weird nights when the Northern Lights shoot up from the frozen zone,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And it's sixty below, and couched in the snow the hungry huskies moan.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">"I'm one of the Arctic brotherhood, I'm an old-time pioneer.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I came with the first—O God! how I've cursed this Yukon—but still I'm here.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I've sweated athirst in its summer heat, I've frozen and starved in its cold;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I've followed my dreams by its thousand streams, I've toiled and moiled for its gold.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">"Look at my eyes—been snow-blind twice; look where my foot's half gone;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And that gruesome scar on my left cheek where the frost-fiend bit to the bone.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_18" name="Page_18">[18]</a></span>
<span class="i0">Each one a brand of this devil's land, where I've played and I've lost the game,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">A broken wreck with a craze for 'hooch,' and never a cent to my name.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">"This mining is only a gamble, the worst is as good as the best;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I was in with the bunch and I might have come out right on top with the rest;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">With Cormack, Ladue and Macdonald—O God! but it's hell to think<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Of the thousands and thousands I've squandered on cards and women and drink.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">"In the early days we were just a few, and we hunted and fished around,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Nor dreamt by our lonely camp-fires of the wealth that lay under the ground.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">We traded in skins and whiskey, and I've often slept under the shade<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Of that lone birch-tree on Bonanza, where the first big find was made.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">"We were just like a great big family, and every man had his squaw,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And we lived such a wild, free, fearless life beyond the pale of the law;<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_19" name="Page_19">[19]</a></span>
<span class="i0">Till sudden there came a whisper, and it maddened us every man,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And I got in on Bonanza before the big rush began.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">"Oh, those Dawson days, and the sin and the blaze, and the town all open wide!<br/></span>
<span class="i0">(If God made me in His likeness, sure He let the devil inside.)<br/></span>
<span class="i0">But we all were mad, both the good and the bad, and as for the women, well—<br/></span>
<span class="i0">No spot on the map in so short a space has hustled more souls to hell.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">"Money was just like dirt there, easy to get and to spend.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I was all caked in on a dance-hall jade, but she shook me in the end.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">It put me queer, and for near a year I never drew sober breath,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Till I found myself in the bughouse ward with a claim staked out on death.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">"Twenty years in the Yukon, struggling along its creeks;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Roaming its giant valleys, scaling its god-like peaks;<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_20" name="Page_20">[20]</a></span>
<span class="i0">Bathed in its fiery sunsets, fighting its fiendish cold,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Twenty years in the Yukon ... twenty years—and I'm old.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">"Old and weak, but no matter, there's 'hooch' in the bottle still.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I'll hitch up the dogs to-morrow, and mush down the trail to Bill.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">It's so long dark, and I'm lonesome—I'll just lay down on the bed,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">To-morrow I'll go ... to-morrow ... I guess I'll play on the red.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">"... Come, Kit, your pony is saddled. I'm waiting, dear, in the court ...<br/></span>
<span class="i0">... Minnie, you devil, I'll kill you if you skip with that flossy sport ...<br/></span>
<span class="i0">... How much does it go to the pan, Bill?... play up, School, and play the game ...<br/></span>
<span class="i0">... Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be Thy name ..."<br/></span>
</div><div class="istanza">
<span class="i0">This was the song of the parson's son, as he lay in his bunk alone,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Ere the fire went out and the cold crept in, and his blue lips ceased to moan,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And the hunger-maddened malamutes had torn him flesh from bone.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_21" name="Page_21">[21]</a></span></p>
<h2>THE SPELL OF THE YUKON</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 21em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">I wanted</span> the gold, and I sought it;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">I scrabbled and mucked like a slave.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Was it famine or scurvy—I fought it,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">I hurled my youth into the grave.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I wanted the gold and I got it—<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Came out with a fortune last fall,—<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Yet somehow life's not what I thought it,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And somehow the gold isn't all.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">No! There's the land. (Have you seen it?)<br/></span>
<span class="i2">It's the cussedest land that I know,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">From the big, dizzy mountains that screen it,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">To the deep, deathlike valleys below.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Some say God was tired when He made it;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Some say it's a fine land to shun;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Maybe: but there's some as would trade it<br/></span>
<span class="i2">For no land on earth—and I'm one.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_22" name="Page_22">[22]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">You come to get rich (damned good reason),<br/></span>
<span class="i2">You feel like an exile at first;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">You hate it like hell for a season,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And then you are worse than the worst.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">It grips you like some kinds of sinning;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">It twists you from foe to a friend;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">It seems it's been since the beginning;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">It seems it will be to the end.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">I've stood in some mighty-mouthed hollow<br/></span>
<span class="i2">That's plumb-full of hush to the brim;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I've watched the big, husky sun wallow<br/></span>
<span class="i2">In crimson and gold, and grow dim,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Till the moon set the pearly peaks gleaming,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And the stars tumbled out, neck and crop;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And I've thought that I surely was dreaming,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">With the peace o' the world piled on top.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">The summer—no sweeter was ever;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The sunshiny woods all athrill;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The grayling aleap in the river,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The bighorn asleep on the hill.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The strong life that never knows harness;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The wilds where the caribou call;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The freshness, the freedom, the farness—<br/></span>
<span class="i2">O God! how I'm stuck on it all.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_23" name="Page_23">[23]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">The winter! the brightness that blinds you,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The white land locked tight as a drum,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The cold fear that follows and finds you,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The silence that bludgeons you dumb.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The snows that are older than history,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The woods where the weird shadows slant;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The stillness, the moonlight, the mystery,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">I've bade 'em good-bye—but I can't.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">There's a land where the mountains are nameless,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And the rivers all run God knows where;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">There are lives that are erring and aimless,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And deaths that just hang by a hair;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">There are hardships that nobody reckons;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">There are valleys unpeopled and still;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">There's a land—oh, it beckons and beckons,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And I want to go back—and I will.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">They're making my money diminish;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">I'm sick of the taste of champagne.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Thank God! when I'm skinned to a finish<br/></span>
<span class="i2">I'll pike to the Yukon again.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I'll fight—and you bet it's no sham-fight;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">It's hell!—but I've been there before;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And it's better than this by a damsite—<br/></span>
<span class="i2">So me for the Yukon once more.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_24" name="Page_24">[24]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">There's gold, and it's haunting and haunting;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">It's luring me on as of old;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Yet it isn't the gold that I'm wanting,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">So much as just finding the gold.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">It's the great, big, broad land 'way up yonder,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">It's the forests where silence has lease;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">It's the beauty that thrills me with wonder,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">It's the stillness that fills me with peace.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_25" name="Page_25">[25]</a></span></p>
<h2>THE CALL OF THE WILD</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 33em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">Have</span> you gazed on naked grandeur where there's nothing else to gaze on,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Set pieces and drop-curtain scenes galore,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Big mountains heaved to heaven, which the blinding sunsets blazon,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Black canyons where the rapids rip and roar?<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Have you swept the visioned valley with the green stream streaking through it,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Searched the Vastness for a something you have lost?<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Have you strung your soul to silence? Then for God's sake go and do it;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Hear the challenge, learn the lesson, pay the cost.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Have you wandered in the wilderness, the sage-brush desolation,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The bunch-grass levels where the cattle graze?<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Have you whistled bits of rag-time at the end of all creation,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And learned to know the desert's little ways?<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_26" name="Page_26">[26]</a></span>
<span class="i0">Have you camped upon the foothills, have you galloped o'er the ranges,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Have you roamed the arid sun-lands through and through?<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Have you chummed up with the mesa? Do you know its moods and changes?<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Then listen to the wild—it's calling you.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Have you known the Great White Silence, not a snow-gemmed twig a-quiver?<br/></span>
<span class="i2">(Eternal truths that shame our soothing lies.)<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Have you broken trail on snowshoes? mushed your huskies up the river,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Dared the unknown, led the way, and clutched the prize?<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Have you marked the map's void spaces, mingled with the mongrel races,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Felt the savage strength of brute in every thew?<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And though grim as hell the worst is, can you round it off with curses?<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Then hearken to the wild—it's wanting you.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Have you suffered, starved, and triumphed grovelled, down, yet grasped at glory,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Grown bigger in the bigness of the whole?<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_27" name="Page_27">[27]</a></span>
<span class="i0">"Done things" just for the doing, letting babblers tell the story,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Seeing through the nice veneer the naked soul?<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Have you seen God in His splendours, heard the text that nature renders?<br/></span>
<span class="i2">(You'll never hear it in the family pew.)<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The simple things, the true things, the silent men who do things—<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Then listen to the wild—it's calling you.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">They have cradled you in custom, they have primed you with their preaching,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">They have soaked you in convention through and through;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">They have put you in a showcase; you're a credit to their teaching—<br/></span>
<span class="i2">But can't you hear the wild?—it's calling you.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Let us probe the silent places, let us seek what luck betide us;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Let us journey to a lonely land I know.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">There's a whisper on the night-wind, there's a star agleam to guide us,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And the wild is calling, calling ... let us go.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_28" name="Page_28">[28]</a></span></p>
<h2>THE LONE TRAIL</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 34em;"><div class="istanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">Ye</span> who know the Lone Trail fain would follow it,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Though it lead to glory or the darkness of the pit.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Ye who take the Lone Trail, bid your love good-bye;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The Lone Trail, the Lone Trail follow till you die.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">The trails of the world be countless, and most of the trails be tried;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">You tread on the heels of the many, till you come where the ways divide;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And one lies safe in the sunlight, and the other is dreary and wan,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Yet you look aslant at the Lone Trail, and the Lone Trail lures you on.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And somehow you're sick of the highway, with its noise and its easy needs,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And you seek the risk of the by-way, and you reck not where it leads.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And sometimes it leads to the desert, and the tongue swells out of the mouth,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And you stagger blind to the mirage, to die in the mocking drouth.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_29" name="Page_29">[29]</a></span>
<span class="i0">And sometimes it leads to the mountain, to the light of the lone camp-fire,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And you gnaw your belt in the anguish of hunger-goaded desire.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And sometimes it leads to the Southland, to the swamp where the orchid glows,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And you rave to your grave with the fever, and they rob the corpse for its clothes.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And sometimes it leads to the Northland, and the scurvy softens your bones,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And your flesh dints in like putty, and you spit out your teeth like stones.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And sometimes it leads to a coral reef in the wash of a weedy sea,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And you sit and stare at the empty glare where the gulls wait greedily.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And sometimes it leads to an Arctic trail, and the snows where your torn feet freeze,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And you whittle away the useless clay, and crawl on your hands and knees.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Often it leads to the dead-pit; always it leads to pain;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">By the bones of your brothers ye know it, but oh, to follow you're fain.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">By your bones they will follow behind you, till the ways of the world are made plain.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_30" name="Page_30">[30]</a></span>
</div><div class="istanza">
<span class="i0">Bid good-bye to sweetheart, bid good-bye to friend;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The Lone Trail, the Lone Trail follow to the end.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Tarry not, and fear not, chosen of the true;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Lover of the Lone Trail, the Lone Trail waits for you.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_31" name="Page_31">[31]</a></span></p>
<h2>THE HEART OF THE SOURDOUGH</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 34em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">There</span> where the mighty mountains bare their fangs unto the moon;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">There where the sullen sun-dogs glare in the snow-bright, bitter noon,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And the glacier-gutted streams sweep down at the clarion call of June:<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">There where the livid tundras keep their tryst with the tranquil snows;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">There where the Silences are spawned, and the light of hell-fire flows<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Into the bowl of the midnight sky, violet, amber, and rose:<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">There where the rapids churn and roar, and the ice-floes bellowing run;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Where the tortured, twisted rivers of blood rush to the setting sun—<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I've packed my kit and I'm going, boys, ere another day is done.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr class="tb"/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_32" name="Page_32">[32]</a></span></p>
<div class="poem" style="width: 34em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">I knew it would call, or soon or late, as it calls the whirring wings;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">It's the olden lure, it's the golden lure, it's the lure of the timeless things;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And to-night, O God of the trails untrod, how it whines in my heart-strings!<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">I'm sick to death of your well-groomed gods, your make-believe and your show;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I long for a whiff of bacon and beans, a snug shake-down in the snow,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">A trail to break, and a life at stake, and another bout with the foe;<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">With the raw-ribbed Wild that abhors all life, the wild that would crush and rend;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I have clinched and closed with the naked North, I have learned to defy and defend;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Shoulder to shoulder we've fought it out—yet the Wild must win in the end.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">I have flouted the Wild. I have followed its lure, fearless, familiar, alone;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">By all that the battle means and makes I claim that land for mine own;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Yet the Wild must win, and a day will come when I shall be overthrown.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_33" name="Page_33">[33]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Then when as wolf-dogs fight we've fought, the lean wolf-land and I;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Fought and bled till the snows are red under the reeling sky;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Even as lean wolf-dog goes down will I go down and die.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_34" name="Page_34">[34]</a></span></p>
<h2>THE THREE VOICES</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 19em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">The</span> waves have a story to tell me,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">As I lie on the lonely beach;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Chanting aloft in the pine-tops,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The wind has a lesson to teach;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">But the stars sing an anthem of glory<br/></span>
<span class="i2">I cannot put into speech.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">The waves tell of ocean spaces,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Of hearts that are wild and brave,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Of populous city places,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Of desolate shores they lave;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Of men who sally in quest of gold<br/></span>
<span class="i2">To sink in an ocean grave.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">The wind is a mighty roamer;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">He bids me keep me free,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Clean from the taint of the gold-lust,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Hardy and pure as he;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Cling with my love to nature<br/></span>
<span class="i2">As a child to the mother-knee.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_35" name="Page_35">[35]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">But the stars throng out in their glory,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And they sing of the God in man;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">They sing of the mighty Master,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Of the loom His fingers span;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Where a star or a soul is a part of the whole,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And weft in the wondrous plan.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Here by the camp-fire's flicker,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Deep in my blanket curled,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I long for the peace of the pine-gloom<br/></span>
<span class="i2">When the scroll of the Lord is unfurled,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And the wind and the wave are silent,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And world is singing to world.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_36" name="Page_36">[36]</a></span></p>
<h2>THE PINES</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 34em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">We</span> sleep in the sleep of ages, the bleak, barbarian pines;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The grey moss drapes us like sages, and closer we lock our lines,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And deeper we clutch through the gelid gloom where never a sunbeam shines.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">On the flanks of the storm-gored ridges are our black battalions massed;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">We surge in a host to the sullen coast, and we sing in the ocean blast;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">From empire of sea to empire of snow we grip our empire fast.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">To the niggard lands were we driven; 'twixt desert and foe are we penned.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">To us was the Northland given, ours to stronghold and defend;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Ours till the world be riven in the crash of the utter end.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_37" name="Page_37">[37]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Ours from the bleak beginning, through the æons of death-like sleep;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Ours from the shock when the naked rock was hurled from the hissing deep;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Ours through the twilight ages of weary glacier-creep.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Wind of the East, wind of the West, wandering to and fro,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Chant your songs in our topmost boughs, that the sons of men may know<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The peerless pine was the first to come, and the pine will be last to go!<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">We pillar the halls of perfumed gloom; we plume where the eagles soar;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The North-wind swoops from the brooding Pole, and our ancients crash and roar;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">But where one falls from the crumbling walls shoots up a hardy score.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">We spring from the gloom of the canyon's womb; in the valley's lap we lie;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">From the white foam-fringe where the breakers cringe to the peaks that tusk the sky<br/></span>
<span class="i0">We climb, and we peer in the crag-locked mere that gleams like a golden eye,—<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_38" name="Page_38">[38]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Gain to the verge of the hog-back ridge where the vision ranges free:<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Pines and pines and the shadow of pines as far as the eye can see;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">A steadfast legion of stalwart knights in dominant empery.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Sun, moon and stars, give answer; shall we not staunchly stand<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Even as now, forever, wards of the wilder strand,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Sentinels of the stillness, lords of the last lone land!<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_39" name="Page_39">[39]</a></span></p>
<h2>THE HARPY</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 30em;"><div class="istanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">There</span> was a woman, and she was wise; woefully wise was she;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">She was old, so old, yet her years all told were but a score and three;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And she knew by heart, from finish to start, the Book of Iniquity.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">There is no hope for such as I, on earth nor yet in Heaven;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Unloved I live, unloved I die, unpitied, unforgiven;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">A loathèd jade I ply my trade, unhallowed and unshriven.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">I paint my cheeks, for they are white, and cheeks of chalk men hate;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Mine eyes with wine I make to shine, that men may seek and sate;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">With overhead a lamp of red I sit me down and wait.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_40" name="Page_40">[40]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Until they come, the nightly scum, with drunken eyes aflame;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Your sweethearts, sons, ye scornful ones—'tis I who know their shame;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The gods ye see are brutes to me—and so I play my game.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">For life is not the thing we thought, and not the thing we plan;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And woman in a bitter world must do the best she can;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Must yield the stroke, and bear the yoke, and serve the will of man;<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Must serve his need and ever feed the flame of his desire;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Though be she loved for love alone, or be she loved for hire;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">For every man since life began is tainted with the mire.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">And though you know he love you so, and set you on love's throne,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Yet let your eyes but mock his sighs, and let your heart be stone,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Lest you be left (as I was left) attainted and alone.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_41" name="Page_41">[41]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">From love's close kiss to hell's abyss is one sheer flight, I trow;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And wedding-ring and bridal bell are will-o'-wisps of woe;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And 'tis not wise to love too well, and this all women know.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Wherefore, the wolf-pack having gorged upon the lamb, their prey,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">With siren smile and serpent guile I make the wolf-pack pay;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">With velvet paws and flensing claws, a tigress roused to slay.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">One who in youth sought truest truth, and found a devil's lies;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">A symbol of the sin of man, a human sacrifice:<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Yet shall I blame on man the shame? Could it be otherwise?<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Was I not born to walk in scorn where others walk in pride?<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The Maker marred, and evil-starred I drift upon His tide;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And He alone shall judge His own, so I His judgment bide.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_42" name="Page_42">[42]</a></span>
</div><div class="istanza">
<span class="i0">Fate has written a tragedy; its name is "The Human Heart."<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The theatre is the House of Life, Woman the mummer's part:<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The Devil enters the prompter's box and the play is ready to start.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_43" name="Page_43">[43]</a></span></p>
<h2>THE LURE OF LITTLE VOICES</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 32em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">There's</span> a cry from out the Loneliness—Oh, listen, Honey, listen!<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Do you hear it, do you fear it, you're a-holding of me so?<br/></span>
<span class="i0">You're a-sobbing in your sleep, dear, and your lashes, how they glisten—<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Do you hear the Little Voices all a-begging me to go?<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">All a-begging me to leave you. Day and night they're pleading, praying,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">On the North-wind, on the West-wind, from the peak and from the plain;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Night and day they never leave me—do you know what they are saying?<br/></span>
<span class="i2">"He was ours before you got him, and we want him once again."<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_44" name="Page_44">[44]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Yes, they're wanting me, they're haunting me, the awful lonely places;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">They're whining and they're whimpering as if each had a soul;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">They're calling from the wilderness, the vast and god-like spaces,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The stark and sullen solitudes that sentinel the Pole.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">They miss my little camp-fires, ever brightly, bravely gleaming<br/></span>
<span class="i2">In the womb of desolation where was never man before;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">As comradeless I sought them, lion-hearted, loving, dreaming;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And they hailed me as a comrade, and they loved me evermore.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">And now they're all a-crying, and it's no use me denying:<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The spell of them is on me and I'm helpless as a child;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">My heart is aching, aching, but I hear them sleeping, waking;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">It's the Lure of Little Voices, it's the mandate of the Wild.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_45" name="Page_45">[45]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">I'm afraid to tell you, Honey, I can take no bitter leaving;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">But softly in the sleep-time from your love I'll steal away.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Oh, it's cruel, dearie, cruel, and it's God knows how I'm grieving;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">But His Loneliness is calling and He knows I must obey.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_46" name="Page_46">[46]</a></span></p>
<h2>THE SONG OF THE WAGE-SLAVE</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 31em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">When</span> the long, long day is over, and the Big Boss gives me my pay,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I hope that it won't be hell-fire, as some of the parsons say.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And I hope that it won't be heaven, with some of the parsons I've met—<br/></span>
<span class="i0">All I want is just quiet, just to rest and forget.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Look at my face, toil-furrowed; look at my calloused hands;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Master, I've done Thy bidding, wrought in Thy many lands—<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Wrought for the little masters, big-bellied they be, and rich;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I've done their desire for a daily hire, and I die like a dog in a ditch.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I have used the strength Thou hast given, Thou knowest I did not shirk;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Threescore years of labour—Thine be the long day's work.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_47" name="Page_47">[47]</a></span>
<span class="i0">And now, Big Master, I'm broken and bent and twisted and scarred,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">But I've held my job, and Thou knowest, and Thou wilt not judge me hard.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Thou knowest my sins are many, and often I've played the fool—<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Whiskey and cards and women, they made me the devil's tool.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I was just like a child with money: I flung it away with a curse,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Feasting a fawning parasite, or glutting a harlot's purse,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Then back to the woods repentant, back to the mill or the mine,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I, the worker of workers, everything in my line.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Everything hard but headwork (I'd no more brains than a kid),<br/></span>
<span class="i0">A brute with brute strength to labour, doing as I was bid;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Living in camps with men-folk, a lonely and loveless life;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Never knew kiss of sweetheart, never caress of wife.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">A brute with brute strength to labour, and they were so far above—<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Yet I'd gladly have gone to the gallows for one little look of Love.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_48" name="Page_48">[48]</a></span>
<span class="i0">I with the strength of two men, savage and shy and wild—<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Yet how I'd ha' treasured a woman, and the sweet, warm kiss of a child.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Well, 'tis Thy world, and Thou knowest. I blaspheme and my ways be rude;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">But I've lived my life as I found it, and I've done my best to be good;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I, the primitive toiler, half naked, and grimed to the eyes,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Sweating it deep in their ditches, swining it stark in their styes,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Hulling down forests before me, spanning tumultuous streams;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Down in the ditch building o'er me palaces fairer than dreams;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Boring the rock to the ore-bed, driving the road through the fen,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Resolute, dumb, uncomplaining, a man in a world of men.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Master, I've filled my contract, wrought in Thy many lands;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Not by my sins wilt Thou judge me, but by the work of my hands.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Master, I've done Thy bidding, and the light is low in the west,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And the long, long shift is over ... Master, I've earned it—Rest.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_49" name="Page_49">[49]</a></span></p>
<h2>GRIN</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 29em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">If</span> you're up against a bruiser and you're getting knocked about—<br/></span>
<span class="i20">Grin.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">If you're feeling pretty groggy, and you're licked beyond a doubt—<br/></span>
<span class="i20">Grin.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Don't let him see you're funking, let him know with every clout,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Though your face is battered to a pulp, your blooming heart is stout;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Just stand upon your pins until the beggar knocks you out—<br/></span>
<span class="i20">And grin.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">This life's a bally battle, and the same advice holds true,<br/></span>
<span class="i20">Of grin.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">If you're up against it badly, then it's only one on you,<br/></span>
<span class="i20">So grin.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_50" name="Page_50">[50]</a></span>
<span class="i0">If the future's black as thunder, don't let people see you're blue;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Just cultivate a cast-iron smile of joy the whole day through;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">If they call you "Little Sunshine," wish that <i>they'd</i> no troubles, too—<br/></span>
<span class="i20">You may—grin.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Rise up in the morning with the will that, smooth or rough,<br/></span>
<span class="i20">You'll grin.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Sink to sleep at midnight, and although you're feeling tough,<br/></span>
<span class="i20">Yet grin.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">There's nothing gained by whining, and you're not that kind of stuff;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">You're a fighter from away back, and you <i>won't</i> take a rebuff;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Your trouble is that you don't know when you have had enough—<br/></span>
<span class="i20">Don't give in.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">If Fate should down you, just get up and take another cuff;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">You may bank on it that there is no philosophy like bluff<br/></span>
<span class="i20">And grin.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_51" name="Page_51">[51]</a></span></p>
<h2><span class="smcap">THE SHOOTING OF DAN McGREW</span></h2>
<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">A bunch</span> of the boys were whooping it up in the Malamute saloon;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The kid that handles the music-box was hitting a jag-time tune;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Back of the bar, in a solo game, sat Dangerous Dan McGrew,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And watching his luck was his light-o'-love, the lady that's known as Lou.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">When out of the night, which was fifty below, and into the din and the glare,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">There stumbled a miner fresh from the creeks, dog-dirty and loaded for bear.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">He looked like a man with a foot in the grave, and scarcely the strength of a louse,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Yet he tilted a poke of dust on the bar, and he called for drinks for the house.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">There was none could place the stranger's face, though we searched ourselves for a clue;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">But we drank his health, and the last to drink was Dangerous Dan McGrew.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_52" name="Page_52">[52]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">There's men that somehow just grip your eyes, and hold them hard like a spell;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And such was he, and he looked to me like a man who had lived in hell;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">With a face most hair, and the dreary stare of a dog whose day is done,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">As he watered the green stuff in his glass, and the drops fell one by one.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Then I got to figgering who he was, and wondering what he'd do,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And I turned my head—and there watching him was the lady that's known as Lou.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">His eyes went rubbering round the room, and he seemed in a kind of daze,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Till at last that old piano fell in the way of his wandering gaze.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The rag-time kid was having a drink; there was no one else on the stool,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">So the stranger stumbles across the room, and flops down there like a fool.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">In a buckskin shirt that was glazed with dirt he sat, and I saw him sway;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Then he clutched the keys with his talon hands—my God! but that man could play!<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Were you ever out in the Great Alone, when the moon was awful clear,<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_53" name="Page_53">[53]</a></span>
<span class="i0">And the icy mountains hemmed you in with a silence you most could <i>hear</i>;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">With only the howl of a timber wolf, and you camped there in the cold,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">A half-dead thing in a stark, dead world, clean mad for the muck called gold;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">While high overhead, green, yellow, and red, the North Lights swept in bars—<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Then you've a haunch what the music meant ... hunger and night and the stars.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">And hunger not of the belly kind, that's banished with bacon and beans;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">But the gnawing hunger of lonely men for a home and all that it means;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">For a fireside far from the cares that are, four walls and a roof above;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">But oh! so cramful of cosy joy, and crowned with a woman's love;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">A woman dearer than all the world, and true as Heaven is true—<br/></span>
<span class="i0">(God! how ghastly she looks through her rouge,—the lady that's known as Lou.)<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Then on a sudden the music changed, so soft that you scarce could hear;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">But you felt that your life had been looted clean of all that it once held dear;<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_54" name="Page_54">[54]</a></span>
<span class="i0">That some one had stolen the woman you loved; that her love was a devil's lie;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">That your guts were gone, and the best for you was to crawl away and die.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">'Twas the crowning cry of a heart's despair, and it thrilled you through and through—<br/></span>
<span class="i0">"I guess I'll make it a spread misere," said Dangerous Dan McGrew.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">The music almost died away ... then it burst like a pent-up flood;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And it seemed to say, "Repay, repay," and my eyes were blind with blood.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The thought came back of an ancient wrong, and it stung like a frozen lash,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And the lust awoke to kill, to kill ... then the music stopped with a crash,<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">And the stranger turned, and his eyes they burned in a most peculiar way;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">In a buckskin shirt that was glazed with dirt he sat, and I saw him sway;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Then his lips went in in a kind of grin, and he spoke, and his voice was calm;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And, "Boys," says he, "you don't know me, and none of you care a damn;<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_55" name="Page_55">[55]</a></span>
<span class="i0">But I want to state, and my words are straight, and I'll bet my poke they're true,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">That one of you is a hound of hell ... and that one is Dan McGrew."<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Then I ducked my head, and the lights went out, and two guns blazed in the dark;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And a woman screamed, and the lights went up, and two men lay stiff and stark;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Pitched on his head, and pumped full of lead, was Dangerous Dan McGrew,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">While the man from the creeks lay clutched to the breast of the lady that's known as Lou.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">These are the simple facts of the case, and I guess I ought to know;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">They say that the stranger was crazed with "hooch," and I'm not denying it's so.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I'm not so wise as the lawyer guys, but strictly between us two—<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The woman that kissed him and—pinched his poke—was the lady that's known as Lou.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_56" name="Page_56">[56]</a></span></p>
<h2><span class="smcap">THE CREMATION OF SAM McGEE</span></h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 35em;"><div class="istanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">There</span> are strange things done in the midnight sun<br/></span>
<span class="i2">By the men who moil for gold;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The Arctic trails have their secret tales<br/></span>
<span class="i2">That would make your blood run cold;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The Northern Lights have seen queer sights,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">But the queerest they ever did see<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Was that night on the marge of Lake Lebarge<br/></span>
<span class="i2">I cremated Sam McGee.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Now Sam McGee was from Tennessee, where the cotton blooms and blows.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Why he left his home in the South to roam round the Pole God only knows.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">He was always cold, but the land of gold seemed to hold him like a spell;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Though he'd often say in his homely way that he'd "sooner live in hell."<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_57" name="Page_57">[57]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">On a Christmas Day we were mushing our way over the Dawson trail.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Talk of your cold! through the parka's fold it stabbed like a driven nail.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">If our eyes we'd close, then the lashes froze, till sometimes we couldn't see;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">It wasn't much fun, but the only one to whimper was Sam McGee.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">And that very night as we lay packed tight in our robes beneath the snow,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And the dogs were fed, and the stars o'erhead were dancing heel and toe,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">He turned to me, and, "Cap," says he, "I'll cash in this trip, I guess;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And if I do, I'm asking that you won't refuse my last request."<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Well, he seemed so low that I couldn't say no: then he says with a sort of moan:<br/></span>
<span class="i0">"It's the cursèd cold, and it's got right hold till I'm chilled clean through to the bone.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Yet 'taint being dead, it's my awful dread of the icy grave that pains:<br/></span>
<span class="i0">So I want you to swear that, foul or fair, you'll cremate my last remains."<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_58" name="Page_58">[58]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">A pal's last need is a thing to heed, so I swore I would not fail;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And we started on at the streak of dawn, but God! he looked ghastly pale.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">He crouched on the sleigh, and he raved all day of his home in Tennessee;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And before nightfall a corpse was all that was left of Sam McGee.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">There wasn't a breath in that land of death, and I hurried, horror driven,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">With a corpse half-hid that I couldn't get rid because of a promise given;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">It was lashed to the sleigh, and it seemed to say: "You may tax your brawn and brains,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">But you promised true, and it's up to you to cremate those last remains."<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Now a promise made is a debt unpaid, and the trail has its own stern code.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">In the days to come, though my lips were dumb, in my heart how I cursed that load.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">In the long, long night, by the lone firelight, while the huskies, round in a ring,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Howled out their woes to the homeless snows—O God! how I loathed the thing!<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_59" name="Page_59">[59]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">And every day that quiet clay seemed to heavy and heavier grow;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And on I went, though the dogs were spent and the grub was getting low;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The trail was bad, and I felt half mad, but I swore I would not give in;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And I'd often sing to the hateful thing, and it hearkened with a grin.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Till I came to the marge of Lake Lebarge, and a derelict there lay;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">It was jammed in the ice, but I saw in a trice it was called the "Alice May."<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And I looked at it, and I thought a bit, and I looked at my frozen chum:<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Then, "Here," said I, with a sudden cry, "is my cre-ma-tor-eum."<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Some planks I tore from the cabin floor, and I lit the boiler fire;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Some coal I found that was lying around, and I heaped the fuel higher;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The flames just soared, and the furnace roared—such a blaze you seldom see;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And I burrowed a hole in the glowing coal, and I stuffed in Sam McGee.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_60" name="Page_60">[60]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Then I made a hike, for I didn't like to hear him sizzle so;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And the heavens scowled, and the huskies howled, and the wind began to blow.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">It was icy cold, but the hot sweat rolled down my cheeks, and I don't know why;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And the greasy smoke in an inky cloak went streaking down the sky.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">I do not know how long in the snow I wrestled with grisly fear;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">But the stars came out and they danced about ere again I ventured near;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I was sick with dread, but I bravely said: "I'll just take a peep inside.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I guess he's cooked, and it's time I looked," ... then the door I opened wide.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">And there sat Sam, looking cool and calm, in the heart of the furnace roar;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And he wore a smile you could see a mile, and he said: "Please close that door.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">It's fine in here, but I greatly fear you'll let in the cold and storm—<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Since I left Plumtree, down in Tennessee, it's the first time I've been warm."<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_61" name="Page_61">[61]</a></span>
</div><div class="istanza">
<span class="i0">There are strange things done in the midnight sun<br/></span>
<span class="i2">By the men who moil for gold;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The Arctic trails have their secret tales<br/></span>
<span class="i2">That would make your blood run cold;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The Northern Lights have seen queer sights,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">But the queerest they ever did see<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Was that night on the marge of Lake Lebarge<br/></span>
<span class="i2">I cremated Sam McGee.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_62" name="Page_62">[62]</a></span></p>
<h2>MY MADONNA</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 23em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">I haled</span> me a woman from the street,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Shameless, but, oh, so fair!<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I bade her sit in the model's seat,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And I painted her sitting there.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i4">I hid all trace of her heart unclean;<br/></span>
<span class="i6">I painted a babe at her breast;<br/></span>
<span class="i4">I painted her as she might have been<br/></span>
<span class="i6">If the Worst had been the Best.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">She laughed at my picture, and went away.<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Then came, with a knowing nod,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">A connoisseur, and I heard him say:<br/></span>
<span class="i2">"'Tis Mary, the Mother of God."<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i4">So I painted a halo round her hair,<br/></span>
<span class="i6">And I sold her, and took my fee,<br/></span>
<span class="i4">And she hangs in the church of Saint Hilaire,<br/></span>
<span class="i6">Where you and all may see.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_63" name="Page_63">[63]</a></span></p>
<h2>UNFORGOTTEN</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 25em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">I know</span> a garden where the lilies gleam,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And one who lingers in the sunshine there;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">She is than white-stoled lily far more fair,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And oh, her eyes are heaven-lit with dream.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i4">I know a garret, cold and dark and drear,<br/></span>
<span class="i6">And one who toils and toils with tireless pen,<br/></span>
<span class="i6">Until his brave, sad eyes grow weary—then<br/></span>
<span class="i4">He seeks the stars, pale, silent as a seer.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">And ah, it's strange, for desolate and dim<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Between these two there rolls an ocean wide;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Yet he is in the garden by her side,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And she is in the garret there with him.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_64" name="Page_64">[64]</a></span></p>
<h2>THE RECKONING</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 28em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">It's</span> fine to have a blow-out in a fancy restaurant,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">With terrapin and canvas-back and all the wine you want;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">To enjoy the flowers and music, watch the pretty women pass,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Smoke a choice cigar, and sip the wealthy water in your glass;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">It's bully in a high-toned joint to eat and drink your fill,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">But it's quite another matter when you<br/></span>
<span class="i20">Pay the bill.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">It's great to go out every night on fun or pleasure bent,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">To wear your glad rags always, and to never save a cent;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">To drift along regardless, have a good time every trip;<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_65" name="Page_65">[65]</a></span>
<span class="i0">To hit the high spots sometimes, and to let your chances slip;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">To know you're acting foolish, yet to go on fooling still,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Till Nature calls a show-down, and you<br/></span>
<span class="i20">Pay the bill.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Time has got a little bill—get wise while yet you may,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">For the debit side's increasing in a most alarming way;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The things you had no right to do, the things you should have done,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">They're all put down: it's up to you to pay for every one.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">So eat, drink, and be merry, have a good time if you will,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">But God help you when the time comes, and you<br/></span>
<span class="i20">Foot the bill.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_66" name="Page_66">[66]</a></span></p>
<h2>QUATRAINS</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 22em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">One</span> said: Thy life is thine to make or mar,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">To flicker feebly, or to soar, a star;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">It lies with thee—the choice is thine, is thine,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">To hit the ties or drive thy auto-car.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">I answer Her: The choice is mine—ah, no!<br/></span>
<span class="i0">We all were made or marred long, long ago.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The parts are written: hear the super wail:<br/></span>
<span class="i0">"Who is stage-managing this cosmic show?"<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Blind fools of fate, and slaves of circumstance,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Life is a fiddler, and we all must dance.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">From gloom where mocks that will-o'-wisp, Freewill,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I heard a voice cry: "Say, give us a chance."<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Chance! Oh, there is no chance. The scene is set.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Up with the curtain! Man, the marionette,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Resumes his part. The gods will work the wires.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">They've got it all down fine, you bet, you bet!<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_67" name="Page_67">[67]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">It's all decreed: the mighty earthquake crash;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The countless constellations' wheel and flash;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The rise and fall of empires, war's red tide,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The composition of your dinner hash.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">There's no haphazard in this world of ours:<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Cause and effect are grim, relentless powers.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">They rule the world. (A king was shot last night.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Last night I held the joker and both bowers.)<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">From out the mesh of fate our heads we thrust.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">We can't do what we would, but what we must.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Heredity has got us in a cinch.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">(Consoling thought, when you've been on a "bust.")<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Hark to the song where spheral voices blend:<br/></span>
<span class="i0">"There's no beginning, never will be end."<br/></span>
<span class="i0">It makes us nutty; hang the astral chimes!<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The table's spread; come, let us dine, my friend.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_68" name="Page_68">[68]</a></span></p>
<h2>THE MEN THAT DON'T FIT IN</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 27em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">There's</span> a race of men that don't fit in,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">A race that can't stay still;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">So they break the hearts of kith and kin,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And they roam the world at will.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">They range the field and they rove the flood,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And they climb the mountain's crest;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Theirs is the curse of the gipsy blood,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And they don't know how to rest.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i4">If they just went straight they might go far;<br/></span>
<span class="i6">They are strong and brave and true;<br/></span>
<span class="i4">But they're always tired of the things that are,<br/></span>
<span class="i6">And they want the strange and new.<br/></span>
<span class="i4">They say: "Could I find my proper groove,<br/></span>
<span class="i6">What a deep mark I would make!"<br/></span>
<span class="i4">So they chop and change, and each fresh move<br/></span>
<span class="i6">Is only a fresh mistake.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_69" name="Page_69">[69]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">And each forgets, as he strips and runs,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">With a brilliant, fitful pace,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">It's the steady, quiet, plodding ones<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Who win in the lifelong race.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And each forgets that his youth has fled,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Forgets that his prime is past,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Till he stands one day with a hope that's dead<br/></span>
<span class="i2">In the glare of the truth at last.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i4">He has failed, he has failed; he has missed his chance;<br/></span>
<span class="i6">He has just done things by half.<br/></span>
<span class="i4">Life's been a jolly good joke on him,<br/></span>
<span class="i6">And now is the time to laugh.<br/></span>
<span class="i4">Ha, ha! He is one of the Legion Lost;<br/></span>
<span class="i6">He was never meant to win;<br/></span>
<span class="i4">He's a rolling stone, and it's bred in the bone;<br/></span>
<span class="i6">He's a man who won't fit in.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_70" name="Page_70">[70]</a></span></p>
<h2>MUSIC IN THE BUSH</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 23em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">O'er</span> the dark pines she sees the silver moon,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And in the west, all tremulous, a star;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And soothing sweet she hears the mellow tune<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Of cow-bells jangled in the fields afar.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Quite listless, for her daily stent is done,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">She stands, sad exile, at her rose-wreathed door,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And sends her love eternal with the sun<br/></span>
<span class="i2">That goes to gild the land she'll see no more.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">The grave, gaunt pines imprison her sad gaze,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">All still the sky and darkling drearily;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">She feels the chilly breath of dear, dead days<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Come sifting through the alders eerily.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Oh, how the roses riot in their bloom!<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The curtains stir as with an ancient pain;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Her old piano gleams from out the gloom,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And waits and waits her tender touch in vain.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_71" name="Page_71">[71]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">But now her hands like moonlight brush the keys<br/></span>
<span class="i2">With velvet grace, melodious delight;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And now a sad refrain from overseas<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Goes sobbing on the bosom of the night.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">And now she sings. (O singer in the gloom,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Voicing a sorrow we can ne'er express,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Here in the Farness where we few have room<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Unshamed to show our love and tenderness,<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Our hearts will echo, till they beat no more,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">That song of sadness and of motherland;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And stretched in deathless love to England's shore,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Some day she'll hearken and she'll understand.)<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">A prima-donna in the shining past,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">But now a mother growing old and grey,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">She thinks of how she held a people fast<br/></span>
<span class="i2">In thrall, and gleaned the triumphs of a day.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">She sees a sea of faces like a dream;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">She sees herself a queen of song once more;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">She sees lips part in rapture, eyes agleam;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">She sings as never once she sang before.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_72" name="Page_72">[72]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">She sings a wild, sweet song that throbs with pain,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The added pain of life that transcends art,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">A song of home, a deep, celestial strain,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The glorious swan-song of a dying heart.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">A lame tramp comes along the railway track,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">A grizzled dog whose day is nearly done:<br/></span>
<span class="i0">He passes, pauses, then comes slowly back<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And listens there—an audience of one.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">She sings—her golden voice is passion-fraught<br/></span>
<span class="i2">As when she charmed a thousand eager ears;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">He listens trembling, and she knows it not,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And down his hollow cheeks roll bitter tears.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">She ceases and is still, as if to pray;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">There is no sound, the stars are all alight—<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Only a wretch who stumbles on his way,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Only a vagrant sobbing in the night.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_73" name="Page_73">[73]</a></span></p>
<h2>THE RHYME OF THE REMITTANCE MAN</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 32em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">There's</span> a four-pronged buck a-swinging in the shadow of my cabin,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And it roamed the velvet valley till to-day;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">But I tracked it by the river, and I trailed it in the cover,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And I killed it on the mountain miles away.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Now I've had my lazy supper, and the level sun is gleaming<br/></span>
<span class="i2">On the water where the silver salmon play;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And I light my little corn-cob, and I linger softly dreaming,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">In the twilight, of a land that's far away.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Far away, so faint and far, is flaming London, fevered Paris,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">That I fancy I have gained another star;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Far away the din and hurry, far away the sin and worry,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Far away—God knows they cannot be too far.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_74" name="Page_74">[74]</a></span>
<span class="i0">Gilded galley-slaves of Mammon—how my purse-proud brothers taunt me!<br/></span>
<span class="i2">I might have been as well-to-do as they<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Had I clutched like them my chances, learned their wisdom, crushed my fancies,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Starved my soul and gone to business every day.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Well, the cherry bends with blossom, and the vivid grass is springing,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And the star-like lily nestles in the green;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And the frogs their joys are singing, and my heart in tune is ringing,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And it doesn't matter what I might have been,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">While above the scented pine-gloom, piling heights of golden glory,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The sun-god paints his canvas in the west;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I can couch me deep in clover, I can listen to the story<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Of the lazy, lapping water—it is best.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">While the trout leaps in the river, and the blue grouse thrills the cover,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And the frozen snow betrays the panther's track,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And the robin greets the dayspring with the rapture of a lover,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">I am happy, and I'll nevermore go back.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_75" name="Page_75">[75]</a></span>
<span class="i0">For I know I'd just be longing for the little old log cabin,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">With the morning-glory clinging to the door,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Till I loathed the city places, cursed the care on all the faces,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Turned my back on lazar London evermore.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">So send me far from Lombard Street, and write me down a failure;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Put a little in my purse and leave me free.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Say: "He turned from Fortune's offering to follow up a pale lure,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">He is one of us no longer—let him be."<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I am one of you no longer: by the trails my feet have broken,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The dizzy peaks I've scaled, the camp-fire's glow,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">By the lonely seas I've sailed in—yea, the final word is spoken,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">I am signed and sealed to nature. Be it so.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_76" name="Page_76">[76]</a></span></p>
<h2>THE LOW-DOWN WHITE</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 33em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">This</span> is the pay-day up at the mines, when the bearded brutes come down;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">There's money to burn in the streets to-night, so I've sent my klooch to town,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">With a haggard face and a ribband of red entwined in her hair of brown.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">And I know at the dawn she'll come reeling home with the bottles, one, two, three;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">One for herself to drown her shame, and two big bottles for me,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">To make me forget the thing I am and the man I used to be.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">To make me forget the brand of the dog, as I crouch in this hideous place;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">To make me forget once I kindled the light of love in a lady's face,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Where even the squalid Siwash now holds me a black disgrace.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_77" name="Page_77">[77]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Oh, I have guarded my secret well! And who would dream as I speak<br/></span>
<span class="i0">In a tribal tongue like a rogue unhung, 'mid the ranch-house filth and reek,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I could roll to bed with a Latin phrase, and rise with a verse of Greek?<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Yet I was a senior prizeman once, and the pride of a college eight;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Called to the bar—my friends were true! but they could not keep me straight;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Then came the divorce, and I went abroad and "died" on the River Plate.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">But I'm not dead yet; though with half a lung there isn't time to spare,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And I hope that the year will see me out, and, thank God, no one will care—<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Save maybe the little slim Siwash girl with the rose of shame in her hair.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">She will come with the dawn, and the dawn is near; I can see its evil glow,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Like a corpse-light seen through a frosty pane in a night of want and woe;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And yonder she comes, by the bleak bull-pines, swift staggering through the snow.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_78" name="Page_78">[78]</a></span></p>
<h2>THE LITTLE OLD LOG CABIN</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 31em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">When</span> a man gits on his uppers in a hard-pan sort of town,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">An' he ain't got nothin' comin', an' he can't afford ter eat,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">An' he's in a fix fer lodgin', an' he wanders up an' down,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">An' you'd fancy he'd been boozin', he's so locoed 'bout the feet;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">When he's feelin' sneakin' sorry, an' his belt is hangin' slack,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">An' his face is peaked an' grey-like, an' his heart gits down an' whines,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Then he's apt ter git a-thinkin' an' a-wishin' he was back<br/></span>
<span class="i2">In the little ol' log cabin in the shadder of the pines.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">When he's on the blazin' desert, an' his canteen's sprung a leak,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">An' he's all alone an' crazy, an' he's crawlin' like a snail,<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_79" name="Page_79">[79]</a></span>
<span class="i0">An' his tongue's so black an' swollen that it hurts him fer to speak,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">An' he gouges down fer water, an' the raven's on his trail;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">When he's done with care and cursin', an' he feels more like to cry,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">An' he sees ol' Death a-grinnin', an' he thinks upon his crimes,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Then he's like ter hev' a vision, as he settles down ter die,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Of the little ol' log cabin an' the roses an' the vines.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Oh, the little ol' log cabin, it's a solemn shinin' mark<br/></span>
<span class="i2">When a feller gits ter sinnin', an' a-goin' ter the wall,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">An' folks don't understand him, an' he's gropin' in the dark,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">An' he's sick of bein' cursed at, an' he's longin' fer his call:<br/></span>
<span class="i0">When the sun of life's a-sinkin' you can see it 'way above,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">On the hill from out the shadder in a glory 'gin the sky,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">An' your mother's voice is callin', an' her arms are stretched in love,<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_80" name="Page_80">[80]</a></span>
<span class="i2">An' somehow you're glad you're goin', an' you ain't a-scared to die;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">When you'll be like a kid again, an' nestle to her breast,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">An' never leave its shelter, an' forget, an' love, an' rest.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_81" name="Page_81">[81]</a></span></p>
<h2>THE YOUNGER SON</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 29em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">If</span> you leave the gloom of London and you seek a glowing land,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Where all except the flag is strange and new,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">There's a bronzed and stalwart fellow who will grip you by the hand,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And greet you with a welcome warm and true;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">For he's your younger brother, the one you sent away,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Because there wasn't room for him at home;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And now he's quite contented, and he's glad he didn't stay,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And he's building Britain's greatness o'er the foam.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">When the giant herd is moving at the rising of the sun,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And the prairie is lit with rose and gold;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And the camp is all a-bustle, and the busy day's begun,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">He leaps into the saddle sure and bold.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_82" name="Page_82">[82]</a></span>
<span class="i0">Through the round of heat and hurry, through the racket and the rout,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">He rattles at a pace that nothing mars;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And when the night-winds whisper, and camp-fires flicker out,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">He is sleeping like a child beneath the stars.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">When the wattle-blooms are drooping in the sombre she-oak glade,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And the breathless land is lying in a swoon,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">He leaves his work a moment, leaning lightly on his spade,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And he hears the bell-bird chime the Austral noon.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The parakeets are silent in the gum-tree by the creek;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The ferny grove is sunshine-steeped and still;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">But the dew will gem the myrtle in the twilight ere he seek<br/></span>
<span class="i2">His little lonely cabin on the hill.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Around the purple, vine-clad slope the argent river dreams;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The roses almost hide the house from view;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">A snow-peak of the Winterberg in crimson splendour gleams;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The shadow deepens down on the karroo.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_83" name="Page_83">[83]</a></span>
<span class="i0">He seeks the lily-scented dusk beneath the orange-tree:<br/></span>
<span class="i2">His pipe in silence glows and fades and glows,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And then two little maids come out and climb upon his knee,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And one is like the lily, one the rose.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">He sees his white sheep dapple o'er the green New Zealand plain,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And where Vancouver's shaggy ramparts frown,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">When the sunlight threads the pine-gloom he is fighting might and main<br/></span>
<span class="i2">To clinch the rivets of an Empire down.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">You will find him toiling, toiling, in the south or in the west,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">A child of nature, fearless, frank and free;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And the warmest heart that beats for you is beating in his breast,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And he sends you loyal greeting o'er the sea.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">You've a brother in the Army, you've another in the Church;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">One of you is a diplomatic swell;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">You've had the pick of everything and left him in the lurch;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And yet I think he's doing very well.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_84" name="Page_84">[84]</a></span>
<span class="i0">I'm sure his life is happy, and he doesn't envy yours;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">I know he loves the land his pluck has won;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And I fancy in the years unborn, while England's fame endures,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">She will come to bless with pride—the Younger Son.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_85" name="Page_85">[85]</a></span></p>
<h2>THE MARCH OF THE DEAD</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 32em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">The</span> cruel war was over—oh, the triumph was so sweet!<br/></span>
<span class="i2">We watched the troops returning, through our tears;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">There was triumph, triumph, triumph down the scarlet glittering street,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And you scarce could hear the music for the cheers.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And you scarce could see the house-tops for the flags that flew between,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The bells were pealing madly to the sky;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And every one was shouting for the Soldiers of the Queen,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And the glory of an age was passing by.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">And then there came a shadow, swift and sudden, dark and drear;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The bells were silent, not an echo stirred.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_86" name="Page_86">[86]</a></span>
<span class="i0">The flags were drooping sullenly, the men forgot to cheer;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">We waited, and we never spoke a word.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The sky grew darker, darker, till from out the gloomy rack<br/></span>
<span class="i2">There came a voice that checked the heart with dread:<br/></span>
<span class="i0">"Tear down, tear down your bunting now, and hang up sable black;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">They are coming—it's the Army of the Dead."<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">They were coming, they were coming, gaunt and ghastly, sad and slow;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">They were coming, all the crimson wrecks of pride;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">With faces seared, and cheeks red smeared, and haunting eyes of woe,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And clotted holes the khaki couldn't hide.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Oh, the clammy brow of anguish! the livid, foam-flecked lips!<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The reeling ranks of ruin swept along!<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The limb that trailed, the hand that failed, the bloody finger-tips!<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And oh, the dreary rhythm of their song!<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">"They left us on the veldt-side, but we felt we couldn't stop,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">On this, our England's crowning festal day;<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_87" name="Page_87">[87]</a></span>
<span class="i0">We're the men of Magersfontein, we're the men of Spion Kop,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Colenso,—we're the men who had to pay.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">We're the men who paid the blood-price. Shall the grave be all our gain?<br/></span>
<span class="i2">You owe us. Long and heavy is the score.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Then cheer us for our glory now, and cheer us for our pain,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And cheer us as ye never cheered before."<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">The folks were white and stricken, and each tongue seemed weighed with lead;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Each heart was clutched in hollow hand of ice;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And every eye was staring at the horror of the dead,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The pity of the men who paid the price.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">They were come, were come to mock us, in the first flush of our peace;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Through writhing lips their teeth were all agleam;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">They were coming in their thousands—oh, would they never cease!<br/></span>
<span class="i2">I closed my eyes, and then—it was a dream.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">There was triumph, triumph, triumph down the scarlet gleaming street;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The town was mad, a man was like a boy.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_88" name="Page_88">[88]</a></span>
<span class="i0">A thousand flags were flaming where the sky and city meet;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">A thousand bells were thundering the joy.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">There was music, mirth and sunshine; but some eyes shone with regret:<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And while we stun with cheers our homing braves,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">O God, in Thy great mercy, let us nevermore forget<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The graves they left behind, the bitter graves.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_89" name="Page_89">[89]</a></span></p>
<h2>"FIGHTING MAC"
<small><br/><br/>A LIFE TRAGEDY</small></h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 24em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">A pistol-shot</span> rings round and round the world:<br/></span>
<span class="i2">In pitiful defeat a warrior lies.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">A last defiance to dark Death is hurled,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">A last wild challenge shocks the sunlit skies.<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Alone he falls with wide, wan, woeful eyes:<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Eyes that could smile at death—could not face shame.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Alone, alone he paced his narrow room,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">In the bright sunshine of that Paris day;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Saw in his thought the awful hand of doom;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Saw in his dream his glory pass away;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Tried in his heart, his weary heart, to pray:<br/></span>
<span class="i0">"O God! who made me, give me strength to face<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The spectre of this bitter, black disgrace."<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr class="tb"/>
<div class="poem" style="width: 24em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">The burn brawls darkly down the shaggy glen,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The bee-kissed heather blooms around the door;<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_90" name="Page_90">[90]</a></span>
<span class="i0">He sees himself a barefoot boy again,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Bending o'er page of legendary lore.<br/></span>
<span class="i2">He hears the pibroch, grips the red claymore,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Runs with the Fiery Cross a clansman true,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Sworn kinsman of Rob Roy and Roderick Dhu.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Eating his heart out with a wild desire,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">One day, behind his counter trim and neat,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">He hears a sound that sets his brain afire—<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The Highlanders are marching down the street.<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Oh, how the pipes shrill out, the mad drums beat!<br/></span>
<span class="i0">"On to the gates of Hell, my Gordons gay!"<br/></span>
<span class="i0">He flings his hated yardstick far away.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">He sees the sullen pass, high-crowned with snow,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Where Afghans cower with eyes of gleaming hate.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">He hurls himself against the hidden foe.<br/></span>
<span class="i2">They try to rally—ah, too late, too late!<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Again, defenceless, with fierce eyes that wait<br/></span>
<span class="i0">For death, he stands, like baited bull at bay,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And flouts the Boers, that mad Majuba day.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">He sees again the murderous Soudan,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Blood-slaked and rapine swept. He seems to stand<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_91" name="Page_91">[91]</a></span>
<span class="i0">Upon the gory plain of Omdurman.<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Then Magersfontein, and supreme command<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Over his Highlanders. To shake his hand<br/></span>
<span class="i0">A King is proud, and princes call him friend,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And glory crowns his life—and now the end.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">The awful end. His eyes are dark with doom;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">He hears the shrapnel shrieking overhead:<br/></span>
<span class="i0">He sees the ravaged ranks, the flame-stabbed gloom.<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Oh, to have fallen! the battle-field his bed,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">With Wauchope and his glorious brother-dead.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Why was he saved for this, for this? And now<br/></span>
<span class="i0">He raises the revolver to his brow.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr class="tb"/>
<div class="poem" style="width: 24em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">In many a Highland home, framed with rude art,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">You'll find his portrait, rough-hewn, stern and square:<br/></span>
<span class="i0">It's graven in the Fuyam fellah's heart;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The Ghurka reads it at his evening prayer;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The raw lands know it, where the fierce suns glare;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The Dervish fears it. Honour to his name,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Who holds aloft the shield of England's fame.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Mourn for our hero, men of Northern race!<br/></span>
<span class="i2">We do not know his sin; we only know<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_92" name="Page_92">[92]</a></span>
<span class="i0">His sword was keen. He laughed death in the face,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And struck, for Empire's sake, a giant blow.<br/></span>
<span class="i2">His arm was strong. Ah! well they learnt, the foe.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The echo of his deeds is ringing yet,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Will ring for aye. All else ... let us forget.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_93" name="Page_93">[93]</a></span></p>
<h2>THE WOMAN AND THE ANGEL</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 34em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">An</span> angel was tired of heaven, as he lounged in the golden street;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">His halo was tilted sideways, and his harp lay mute at his feet;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">So the Master stooped in His pity, and gave him a pass to go,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">For the space of a moon, to the earth-world, to mix with the men below.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">He doffed his celestial garments, scarce waiting to lay them straight;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">He bade goodbye to Peter, who stood by the golden gate;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The sexless singers of heaven chanted a fond farewell,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And the imps looked up as they pattered on the red-hot flags of hell.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_94" name="Page_94">[94]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Never was seen such an angel: eyes of a heavenly blue,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Features that shamed Apollo, hair of a golden hue;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The women simply adored him, his lips were like Cupid's bow;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">But he never ventured to use them—and so they voted him slow.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Till at last there came One Woman, a marvel of loveliness,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And she whispered to him: "Do you love me?" And he answered that woman, "Yes."<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And she said: "Put your arms around me, and kiss me, and hold me—so—"<br/></span>
<span class="i0">But fiercely he drew back, saying: "This thing is wrong, and I know."<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Then sweetly she mocked his scruples, and softly she him beguiled:<br/></span>
<span class="i0">"You, who are verily man among men, speak with the tongue of a child.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">We have outlived the old standards; we have burst, like an over-tight thong,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The ancient, outworn, puritanic traditions of Right and Wrong."<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_95" name="Page_95">[95]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Then the Master feared for His angel, and called him again to His side,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">For oh, the woman was wondrous, and oh, the angel was tried.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And deep in his hell sang the Devil, and this was the strain of his song:<br/></span>
<span class="i0">"The ancient, outworn, puritanic traditions of Right and Wrong."<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_96" name="Page_96">[96]</a></span></p>
<h2>THE RHYME OF THE RESTLESS ONES</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 28em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">We</span> couldn't sit and study for the law;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The stagnation of a bank we couldn't stand;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">For our riot blood was surging, and we didn't need much urging<br/></span>
<span class="i0">To excitements and excesses that are banned.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">So we took to wine and drink and other things,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And the devil in us struggled to be free;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Till our friends rose up in wrath, and they pointed out the path,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And they paid our debts and packed us o'er the sea.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Oh, they shook us off and shipped us o'er the foam,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">To the larger lands that lure a man to roam;<br/></span>
<span class="i4">And we took the chance they gave<br/></span>
<span class="i4">Of a far and foreign grave,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And we bade goodbye for evermore to home.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_97" name="Page_97">[97]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">And some of us are climbing on the peak,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And some of us are camping on the plain;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">By pine and palm you'll find us, with never claim to bind us,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">By track and trail you'll meet us once again.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">We are fated serfs to freedom—sky and sea;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">We have failed where slummy cities overflow;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">But the stranger ways of earth know our pride and know our worth,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And we go into the dark as fighters go.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Yes, we go into the night as brave men go,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Though our faces they be often streaked with woe;<br/></span>
<span class="i4">Yet we're hard as cats to kill,<br/></span>
<span class="i4">And our hearts are reckless still,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And we've danced with death a dozen times or so.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">And you'll find us in Alaska after gold,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And you'll find us herding cattle in the South.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">We like strong drink and fun; and when the race is run,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">We often die with curses in our mouth.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">We are wild as colts unbroke, but never mean;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Of our sins we've shoulders broad to bear the blame;<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_98" name="Page_98">[98]</a></span>
<span class="i0">But we'll never stay in town, and we'll never settle down,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And we'll never have an object or an aim.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">No, there's that in us that time can never tame;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And life will always seem a careless game;<br/></span>
<span class="i4">And they'd better far forget—<br/></span>
<span class="i4">Those who say they love us yet—<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Forget, blot out with bitterness our name.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_99" name="Page_99">[99]</a></span></p>
<h2>NEW YEAR'S EVE</h2>
<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">It's</span> cruel cold on the water-front, silent and dark and drear;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Only the black tide weltering, only the hissing snow;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And I, alone, like a storm-tossed wreck, on this night of the glad New Year,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Shuffling along in the icy wind, ghastly and gaunt and slow.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">They're playing a tune in McGuffy's saloon, and it's cheery and bright in there<br/></span>
<span class="i2">(God! but I'm weak—since the bitter dawn, and never a bite of food);<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I'll just go over and slip inside—I mustn't give way to despair—<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Perhaps I can bum a little booze if the boys are feeling good.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">They'll jeer at me, and they'll sneer at me, and they'll call me a whiskey soak;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">("Have a drink? Well, thankee kindly, sir, I don't mind if I do.")<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_100" name="Page_100">[100]</a></span>
<span class="i0">A drivelling, dirty gin-joint fiend, the butt of the bar-room joke;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Sunk and sodden and hopeless—"Another? Well, here's to you!"<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">McGuffy is showing a bunch of the boys how Bob Fitzsimmons hit;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The barman is talking of Tammany Hall, and why the ward boss got fired;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I'll just sneak into a corner, and they'll let me alone a bit;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The room is reeling round and round ... O God, but I'm tired, I'm tired....<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr class="tb"/>
<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Roses she wore on her breast that night. Oh, but their scent was sweet;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Alone we sat on the balcony, and the fan-palms arched above;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">The witching strain of a waltz by Strauss came up to our cool retreat,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And I prisoned her little hand in mine, and I whispered my plea of love.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Then sudden the laughter died on her lips, and lowly she bent her head;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And oh, there came in the deep, dark eyes a look that was heaven to see<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_101" name="Page_101">[101]</a></span>
<span class="i0">And the moments went, and I waited there, and never a word was said,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And she plucked from her bosom a rose of red, and shyly gave it to me.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Then the music swelled to a crash of joy, and the lights blazed up like day;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And I held her fast to my throbbing heart, and I kissed her bonny brow;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">"She is mine, she is mine for evermore!" the violins seemed to say,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And the bells were ringing the New Year in—O God! I can hear them now.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Don't you remember that long, last waltz, with its sobbing, sad refrain?<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Don't you remember that last goodbye, and the dear eyes dim with tears?<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Don't you remember that golden dream, with never a hint of pain,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Of lives that would blend like an angel-song in the bliss of the coming year?<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Oh, what have I lost! What have I lost! Ethel, forgive, forgive!<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The red, red rose is faded now, and it's fifty years ago.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_102" name="Page_102">[102]</a></span>
<span class="i0">'Twere better to die a thousand deaths than live each day as I live!<br/></span>
<span class="i2">I have sinned, I have sunk to the lowest depths—but oh, I have suffered so!<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Hark! Oh hark! I can hear the bells!... Look! I can see her there,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Fair as a dream ... but it fades ... And now—I can hear the dreadful hum<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Of the crowded court ... See! the Judge looks down ... <span class="smcap">Not Guilty</span>, my Lord, I swear ...<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The bells, I can hear the bells again ... Ethel, I come, I come!...<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr class="tb"/>
<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">"Rouse up, old man, it's twelve o'clock. You can't sleep here, you know.<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Say! ain't you got no sentiment? Lift up your muddled head;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Have a drink to the glad New Year, a drop before you go—<br/></span>
<span class="i2">You darned old dirty hobo ... My God! Here, boys! He's <span class="smcapl">DEAD</span>!"<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_103" name="Page_103">[103]</a></span></p>
<h2>COMFORT</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 25em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">Say</span>! You've struck a heap of trouble—<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Bust in business, lost your wife;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">No one cares a cent about you,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">You don't care a cent for life;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Hard luck has of hope bereft you,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Health is failing, wish you'd die—<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Why, you've still the sunshine left you,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And the big, blue sky.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i6">Sky so blue it makes you wonder<br/></span>
<span class="i8">If it's heaven shining through;<br/></span>
<span class="i6">Earth so smiling 'way out yonder,<br/></span>
<span class="i8">Sun so bright it dazzles you;<br/></span>
<span class="i6">Birds a-singing, flowers a-flinging<br/></span>
<span class="i8">All their fragrance on the breeze;<br/></span>
<span class="i6">Dancing shadows, green, still meadows—<br/></span>
<span class="i8">Don't you mope, you've still got these.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">These, and none can take them from you;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">These, and none can weigh their worth.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_104" name="Page_104">[104]</a></span>
<span class="i0">What! you're tired and broke and beaten?—<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Why, you're rich—you've got the earth!<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Yes, if you're a tramp in tatters,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">While the blue sky bends above,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">You've got nearly all that matters,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">You've got God, and God is love.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_105" name="Page_105">[105]</a></span></p>
<h2>PREMONITION</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 27em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">'<span class="smcap">Twas</span> a year ago and the moon was bright<br/></span>
<span class="i2">(Oh, I remember so well, so well),<br/></span>
<span class="i0">I walked with my love in a sea of light,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And the voice of my sweet was a silver bell.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i4">And sudden the moon grew strangely dull,<br/></span>
<span class="i6">And sudden my love had taken wing;<br/></span>
<span class="i4">I looked on the face of a grinning skull,<br/></span>
<span class="i6">I strained to my heart a ghastly thing.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">'Twas but fantasy, for my love lay still<br/></span>
<span class="i2">In my arms with her tender eyes aglow,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">And she wondered why my lips were chill,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Why I was silent and kissed her so.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i4">A year has gone and the moon is bright,<br/></span>
<span class="i6">A gibbous moon like a ghost of woe;<br/></span>
<span class="i4">I sit by a new-made grave to-night,<br/></span>
<span class="i6">And my heart is broken—it's strange, you know.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_106" name="Page_106">[106]</a></span></p>
<h2>THE TRAMPS</h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 31em;"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">Can</span> you recall, dear comrade, when we tramped God's land together,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And we sang the old, old Earth-song, for our youth was very sweet;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">When we drank and fought and lusted, as we mocked at tie and tether,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Along the road to Anywhere, the wide world at our feet.<br/></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Along the road to Anywhere, when each day had its story;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">When time was yet our vassal, and life's jest was still unstale;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">When peace unfathomed filled our hearts as, bathed in amber glory,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Along the road to Anywhere we watched the sunsets pale.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_107" name="Page_107">[107]</a></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Alas! the road to Anywhere is pitfalled with disaster;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">There's hunger, want, and weariness, yet O we loved it so!<br/></span>
<span class="i0">As on we tramped exultantly, and no man was our master,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And no man guessed what dreams were ours, as swinging heel and toe,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">We tramped the road to Anywhere, the magic road to Anywhere,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">The tragic road to Anywhere, such dear, dim years ago.<br/></span>
</div></div>
<hr/><p><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_108" name="Page_108">[108]</a></span></p>
<h2><i>L'ENVOI</i></h2>
<div class="poem" style="width: 27em;"><div class="istanza">
<span class="i0"><span class="smcap">You</span> who have lived in the Land,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">You who have trusted the trail;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">You who are strong to withstand,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">You who are swift to assail;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Songs have I sung to beguile,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Vintage of desperate years<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Hard as a harlot's smile,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Bitter as unshed tears.<br/></span>
</div><div class="istanza">
<span class="i8">Little of joy or mirth,<br/></span>
<span class="i10">Little of ease I sing;<br/></span>
<span class="i8">Sagas of men of earth,<br/></span>
<span class="i10">Humanly suffering,<br/></span>
<span class="i8">Such as you all have done;<br/></span>
<span class="i10">Savagely faring forth,<br/></span>
<span class="i8">Sons of the midnight sun,<br/></span>
<span class="i10">Argonauts of the North.<br/></span><span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_109" name="Page_109">[109]</a></span>
</div><div class="istanza">
<span class="i0">Far in the land God forgot<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Glimmers the lure of your trail;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Still in your lust are you taught<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Even to win is to fail.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Still must you follow and fight<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Under the vampire wing;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">There in the long, long night<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Hoping and vanquishing.<br/></span>
</div><div class="istanza">
<span class="i8">Husbandmen of the Wild,<br/></span>
<span class="i10">Reaping a barren gain;<br/></span>
<span class="i8">Scourged by desire, reconciled<br/></span>
<span class="i10">Unto disaster and pain;<br/></span>
<span class="i8">These my songs are for you,<br/></span>
<span class="i10">You who are seared with the brand:<br/></span>
<span class="i8">God knows I have tried to be true;<br/></span>
<span class="i10">Please God you will understand.<br/></span>
</div></div>
