<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-CA">
	<head>
		<title>Songs of a Sourdough</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-law-of-the-yukon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Law of the Yukon</h2>
			<p>
				<span>This is the law of the Yukon, and ever she makes it plain:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Send not your foolish and feeble; send me your strong and your sane.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Strong for the red rage of battle; sane, for I harry them sore;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Send me men girt for the combat, men who are grit to the core;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Swift as the panther in triumph, fierce as the bear in defeat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sired of a bulldog parent, steeled in the furnace heat.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Send me the best of your breeding, lend me your chosen ones;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Them will I take to my bosom, them will I call my sons;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Them will I gild with my treasure, them will I glut with my meat;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the others⁠—the misfits, the failures⁠—I trample under my feet.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dissolute, damned, and despairful, crippled and palsied and slain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ye would send me the spawn of your gutters⁠—Go! take back your spawn again.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Wild and wide are my borders, stern as death is my sway;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From my ruthless throne I have ruled alone for a million years and a day;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hugging my mighty treasure, waiting for man to come:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till he swept like a turbid torrent, and after him swept⁠—the scum.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The pallid pimp of the dead-line, the enervate of the pen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One by one I weeded them out, for all that I sought was⁠—Men.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One by one I dismayed them, frighting them sore with my glooms;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One by one I betrayed them unto my manifold dooms.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drowned them like rats in my rivers, starved them like curs on my plains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rotted the flesh that was left them, poisoned the blood in their veins;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Burst with my winter upon them, searing forever their sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lashed them with fungus-white faces, whimpering wild in the night;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Staggering blind through the storm-whirl, stumbling mad through the snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Frozen stiff in the ice pack, brittle and bent like a bow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Featureless, formless, forsaken, scented by wolves in their flight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Left for the wind to make music through ribs that are glittering white;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gnawing the black crust of failure, searching the pit of despair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Crooking the toe in the trigger, trying to patter a prayer;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Going outside with an escort, raving with lips all afoam;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Writing a cheque for a million, drivelling feebly of home;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lost like a louse in the burning … or else in tented town</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seeking a drunkard’s solace, sinking and sinking down;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Steeped in the slime at the bottom, dead to a decent world,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lost ’mid the human flotsam, far on the frontier hurled;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the camp at the bend of the river, with its dozen saloons aglare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its gambling dens a-riot, its gramophones all a-blare;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Crimped with the crimes of a city, sin-ridden and bridled with lies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the hush of my mountained vastness, in the flush of my midnight skies.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Plague-spots, yet tools of my purpose, so natheless I suffer them thrive,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Crushing my Weak in their clutches, that only my Strong may survive.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“But the others, the men of my mettle, the men who would ’stablish my fame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unto its ultimate issue, winning me honour, not shame;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Searching my uttermost valleys, fighting each step as they go,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shooting the wrath of my rapids, scaling my ramparts of snow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ripping the guts of my mountains, looting the beds of my creeks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Them will I take to my bosom, and speak as a mother speaks.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am the land that listens, I am the land that broods;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Steeped in eternal beauty, crystalline waters and woods.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Long have I waited lonely, shunned as a thing accurst,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Monstrous, moody, pathetic, the last of the lands and the first;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Visioning camp-fires at twilight, sad with a longing forlorn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Feeling my womb o’er-pregnant with the seed of cities unborn.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wild and wide are my borders, stern as death is my sway,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I wait for the men who will win me⁠—and I will not be won in a day;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I will not be won by weaklings, subtile, suave, and mild,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But by men with the hearts of vikings, and the simple faith of a child;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Desperate, strong, and resistless, unthrottled by fear or defeat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Them will I gild with my treasure, them will I glut with my meat.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Lofty I stand from each sister land, patient and wearily wise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the weight of a world of sadness in my quiet, passionless eyes;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dreaming alone of a people, dreaming alone of a day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When men shall not rape my riches, and curse me and go away;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Making a bawd of my bounty, fouling the hand that gave⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till I rise in my wrath and I sweep on their path and I stamp them into a grave.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dreaming of men who will bless me, of women esteeming me good,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of children born in my borders, of radiant motherhood;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of cities leaping to stature, of fame like a flag unfurled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As I pour the tide of my riches in the eager lap of the world.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This is the Law of the Yukon, that only the Strong shall thrive;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That surely the Weak shall perish, and only the Fit survive.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dissolute, damned, and despairful, crippled and palsied and slain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This is the Will of the Yukon⁠—Lo! how she makes it plain!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-parsons-son" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Parson’s Son</h2>
			<p class="istanza">
				<span>This is the song of the parson’s son, as he squats in his shack alone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the wild, weird nights when the Northern Lights shoot up from the frozen zone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it’s sixty below, and couched in the snow the hungry huskies moan.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“I’m one of the Arctic brotherhood, I’m an old-time pioneer.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I came with the first⁠—O God! how I’ve cursed this Yukon⁠—but still I’m here.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ve sweated athirst in its summer heat, I’ve frozen and starved in its cold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ve followed my dreams by its thousand streams, I’ve toiled and moiled for its gold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Look at my eyes⁠—been snow-blind twice; look where my foot’s half gone;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that gruesome scar on my left cheek where the frost-fiend bit to the bone.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each one a brand of this devil’s land, where I’ve played and I’ve lost the game,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A broken wreck with a craze for ‘hooch,’ and never a cent to my name.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“This mining is only a gamble, the worst is as good as the best;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I was in with the bunch and I might have come out right on top with the rest;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With Cormack, Ladue and Macdonald⁠—O God! but it’s hell to think</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the thousands and thousands I’ve squandered on cards and women and drink.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“In the early days we were just a few, and we hunted and fished around,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor dreamt by our lonely camp-fires of the wealth that lay under the ground.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We traded in skins and whiskey, and I’ve often slept under the shade</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of that lone birch-tree on Bonanza, where the first big find was made.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“We were just like a great big family, and every man had his squaw,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we lived such a wild, free, fearless life beyond the pale of the law;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till sudden there came a whisper, and it maddened us every man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I got in on Bonanza before the big rush began.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Oh, those Dawson days, and the sin and the blaze, and the town all open wide!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>(If God made me in His likeness, sure He let the devil inside.)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But we all were mad, both the good and the bad, and as for the women, well⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No spot on the map in so short a space has hustled more souls to hell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Money was just like dirt there, easy to get and to spend.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I was all caked in on a dance-hall jade, but she shook me in the end.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It put me queer, and for near a year I never drew sober breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till I found myself in the bughouse ward with a claim staked out on death.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Twenty years in the Yukon, struggling along its creeks;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Roaming its giant valleys, scaling its god-like peaks;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bathed in its fiery sunsets, fighting its fiendish cold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Twenty years in the Yukon … twenty years⁠—and I’m old.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Old and weak, but no matter, there’s ‘hooch’ in the bottle still.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ll hitch up the dogs to-morrow, and mush down the trail to Bill.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It’s so long dark, and I’m lonesome⁠—I’ll just lay down on the bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To-morrow I’ll go … to-morrow … I guess I’ll play on the red.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“… Come, Kit, your pony is saddled. I’m waiting, dear, in the court …</span>
				<br/>
				<span>… Minnie, you devil, I’ll kill you if you skip with that flossy sport …</span>
				<br/>
				<span>… How much does it go to the pan, Bill? … play up, School, and play the game …</span>
				<br/>
				<span>… Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be Thy name …”</span>
			</p>
			<p class="istanza">
				<span>This was the song of the parson’s son, as he lay in his bunk alone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ere the fire went out and the cold crept in, and his blue lips ceased to moan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the hunger-maddened malamutes had torn him flesh from bone.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-spell-of-the-yukon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Spell of the Yukon</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I wanted the gold, and I sought it;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I scrabbled and mucked like a slave.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was it famine or scurvy⁠—I fought it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I hurled my youth into the grave.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I wanted the gold and I got it⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Came out with a fortune last fall⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet somehow life’s not what I thought it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And somehow the gold isn’t all.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No! There’s the land. (Have you seen it?)</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It’s the cussedest land that I know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the big, dizzy mountains that screen it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To the deep, deathlike valleys below.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some say God was tired when He made it;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Some say it’s a fine land to shun;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Maybe: but there’s some as would trade it</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For no land on earth⁠—and I’m one.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You come to get rich (damned good reason),</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You feel like an exile at first;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You hate it like hell for a season,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And then you are worse than the worst.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It grips you like some kinds of sinning;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It twists you from foe to a friend;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It seems it’s been since the beginning;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It seems it will be to the end.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I’ve stood in some mighty-mouthed hollow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That’s plumb-full of hush to the brim;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ve watched the big, husky sun wallow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In crimson and gold, and grow dim,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till the moon set the pearly peaks gleaming,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the stars tumbled out, neck and crop;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I’ve thought that I surely was dreaming,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With the peace o’ the world piled on top.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The summer⁠—no sweeter was ever;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The sunshiny woods all athrill;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The grayling aleap in the river,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The bighorn asleep on the hill.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The strong life that never knows harness;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The wilds where the caribou call;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The freshness, the freedom, the farness⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O God! how I’m stuck on it all.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The winter! the brightness that blinds you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The white land locked tight as a drum,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cold fear that follows and finds you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The silence that bludgeons you dumb.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The snows that are older than history,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The woods where the weird shadows slant;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The stillness, the moonlight, the mystery,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I’ve bade ’em good-bye⁠—but I can’t.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There’s a land where the mountains are nameless,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the rivers all run God knows where;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There are lives that are erring and aimless,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And deaths that just hang by a hair;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There are hardships that nobody reckons;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">There are valleys unpeopled and still;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There’s a land⁠—oh, it beckons and beckons,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And I want to go back⁠—and I will.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They’re making my money diminish;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I’m sick of the taste of champagne.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thank God! when I’m skinned to a finish</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I’ll pike to the Yukon again.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ll fight⁠—and you bet it’s no sham-fight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It’s hell!⁠—but I’ve been there before;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it’s better than this by a damsite⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">So me for the Yukon once more.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There’s gold, and it’s haunting and haunting;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It’s luring me on as of old;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet it isn’t the gold that I’m wanting,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">So much as just finding the gold.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It’s the great, big, broad land ‘way up yonder,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It’s the forests where silence has lease;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It’s the beauty that thrills me with wonder,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It’s the stillness that fills me with peace.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-call-of-the-wild" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Call of the Wild</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Have you gazed on naked grandeur where there’s nothing else to gaze on,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Set pieces and drop-curtain scenes galore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Big mountains heaved to heaven, which the blinding sunsets blazon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Black canyons where the rapids rip and roar?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have you swept the visioned valley with the green stream streaking through it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Searched the Vastness for a something you have lost?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have you strung your soul to silence? Then for God’s sake go and do it;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hear the challenge, learn the lesson, pay the cost.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Have you wandered in the wilderness, the sage-brush desolation,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The bunch-grass levels where the cattle graze?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have you whistled bits of rag-time at the end of all creation,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And learned to know the desert’s little ways?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have you camped upon the foothills, have you galloped o’er the ranges,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Have you roamed the arid sun-lands through and through?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have you chummed up with the mesa? Do you know its moods and changes?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Then listen to the wild⁠—it’s calling you.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Have you known the Great White Silence, not a snow-gemmed twig a-quiver?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(Eternal truths that shame our soothing lies.)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have you broken trail on snowshoes? mushed your huskies up the river,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Dared the unknown, led the way, and clutched the prize?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have you marked the map’s void spaces, mingled with the mongrel races,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Felt the savage strength of brute in every thew?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And though grim as hell the worst is, can you round it off with curses?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Then hearken to the wild⁠—it’s wanting you.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Have you suffered, starved, and triumphed grovelled, down, yet grasped at glory,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Grown bigger in the bigness of the whole?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Done things” just for the doing, letting babblers tell the story,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Seeing through the nice veneer the naked soul?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have you seen God in His splendours, heard the text that nature renders?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(You’ll never hear it in the family pew.)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The simple things, the true things, the silent men who do things⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Then listen to the wild⁠—it’s calling you.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They have cradled you in custom, they have primed you with their preaching,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They have soaked you in convention through and through;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They have put you in a showcase; you’re a credit to their teaching⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But can’t you hear the wild?⁠—it’s calling you.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let us probe the silent places, let us seek what luck betide us;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Let us journey to a lonely land I know.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There’s a whisper on the night-wind, there’s a star agleam to guide us,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the wild is calling, calling … let us go.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-lone-trail" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Lone Trail</h2>
			<p class="istanza">
				<span>Ye who know the Lone Trail fain would follow it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though it lead to glory or the darkness of the pit.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ye who take the Lone Trail, bid your love good-bye;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Lone Trail, the Lone Trail follow till you die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The trails of the world be countless, and most of the trails be tried;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You tread on the heels of the many, till you come where the ways divide;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And one lies safe in the sunlight, and the other is dreary and wan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet you look aslant at the Lone Trail, and the Lone Trail lures you on.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And somehow you’re sick of the highway, with its noise and its easy needs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you seek the risk of the by-way, and you reck not where it leads.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sometimes it leads to the desert, and the tongue swells out of the mouth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you stagger blind to the mirage, to die in the mocking drouth.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sometimes it leads to the mountain, to the light of the lone camp-fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you gnaw your belt in the anguish of hunger-goaded desire.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sometimes it leads to the Southland, to the swamp where the orchid glows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you rave to your grave with the fever, and they rob the corpse for its clothes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sometimes it leads to the Northland, and the scurvy softens your bones,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And your flesh dints in like putty, and you spit out your teeth like stones.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sometimes it leads to a coral reef in the wash of a weedy sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you sit and stare at the empty glare where the gulls wait greedily.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sometimes it leads to an Arctic trail, and the snows where your torn feet freeze,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you whittle away the useless clay, and crawl on your hands and knees.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Often it leads to the dead-pit; always it leads to pain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By the bones of your brothers ye know it, but oh, to follow you’re fain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By your bones they will follow behind you, till the ways of the world are made plain.</span>
			</p>
			<p class="istanza">
				<span>Bid good-bye to sweetheart, bid good-bye to friend;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Lone Trail, the Lone Trail follow to the end.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tarry not, and fear not, chosen of the true;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lover of the Lone Trail, the Lone Trail waits for you.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-heart-of-the-sourdough" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Heart of the Sourdough</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There where the mighty mountains bare their fangs unto the moon;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There where the sullen sun-dogs glare in the snow-bright, bitter noon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the glacier-gutted streams sweep down at the clarion call of June:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There where the livid tundras keep their tryst with the tranquil snows;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There where the Silences are spawned, and the light of hell-fire flows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into the bowl of the midnight sky, violet, amber, and rose:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There where the rapids churn and roar, and the ice-floes bellowing run;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the tortured, twisted rivers of blood rush to the setting sun⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ve packed my kit and I’m going, boys, ere another day is done.</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>I knew it would call, or soon or late, as it calls the whirring wings;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It’s the olden lure, it’s the golden lure, it’s the lure of the timeless things;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to-night, O God of the trails untrod, how it whines in my heart-strings!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I’m sick to death of your well-groomed gods, your make-believe and your show;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I long for a whiff of bacon and beans, a snug shake-down in the snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A trail to break, and a life at stake, and another bout with the foe;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With the raw-ribbed Wild that abhors all life, the wild that would crush and rend;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have clinched and closed with the naked North, I have learned to defy and defend;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shoulder to shoulder we’ve fought it out⁠—yet the Wild must win in the end.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I have flouted the Wild. I have followed its lure, fearless, familiar, alone;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By all that the battle means and makes I claim that land for mine own;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet the Wild must win, and a day will come when I shall be overthrown.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then when as wolf-dogs fight we’ve fought, the lean wolf-land and I;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fought and bled till the snows are red under the reeling sky;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even as lean wolf-dog goes down will I go down and die.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-three-voices" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Three Voices</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The waves have a story to tell me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As I lie on the lonely beach;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Chanting aloft in the pine-tops,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The wind has a lesson to teach;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the stars sing an anthem of glory</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I cannot put into speech.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The waves tell of ocean spaces,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of hearts that are wild and brave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of populous city places,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of desolate shores they lave;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of men who sally in quest of gold</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To sink in an ocean grave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The wind is a mighty roamer;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He bids me keep me free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Clean from the taint of the gold-lust,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hardy and pure as he;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cling with my love to nature</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As a child to the mother-knee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But the stars throng out in their glory,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And they sing of the God in man;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They sing of the mighty Master,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the loom His fingers span;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where a star or a soul is a part of the whole,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And weft in the wondrous plan.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Here by the camp-fire’s flicker,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Deep in my blanket curled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I long for the peace of the pine-gloom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When the scroll of the Lord is unfurled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the wind and the wave are silent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And world is singing to world.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-pines" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Pines</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We sleep in the sleep of ages, the bleak, barbarian pines;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The grey moss drapes us like sages, and closer we lock our lines,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And deeper we clutch through the gelid gloom where never a sunbeam shines.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On the flanks of the storm-gored ridges are our black battalions massed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We surge in a host to the sullen coast, and we sing in the ocean blast;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From empire of sea to empire of snow we grip our empire fast.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To the niggard lands were we driven; ’twixt desert and foe are we penned.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To us was the Northland given, ours to stronghold and defend;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ours till the world be riven in the crash of the utter end.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ours from the bleak beginning, through the æons of death-like sleep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ours from the shock when the naked rock was hurled from the hissing deep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ours through the twilight ages of weary glacier-creep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Wind of the East, wind of the West, wandering to and fro,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Chant your songs in our topmost boughs, that the sons of men may know</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The peerless pine was the first to come, and the pine will be last to go!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We pillar the halls of perfumed gloom; we plume where the eagles soar;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The North-wind swoops from the brooding Pole, and our ancients crash and roar;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But where one falls from the crumbling walls shoots up a hardy score.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We spring from the gloom of the canyon’s womb; in the valley’s lap we lie;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the white foam-fringe where the breakers cringe to the peaks that tusk the sky</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We climb, and we peer in the crag-locked mere that gleams like a golden eye⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Gain to the verge of the hog-back ridge where the vision ranges free:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pines and pines and the shadow of pines as far as the eye can see;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A steadfast legion of stalwart knights in dominant empery.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sun, moon and stars, give answer; shall we not staunchly stand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even as now, forever, wards of the wilder strand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sentinels of the stillness, lords of the last lone land!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-harpy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Harpy</h2>
			<p class="istanza">
				<span>There was a woman, and she was wise; woefully wise was she;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She was old, so old, yet her years all told were but a score and three;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she knew by heart, from finish to start, the Book of Iniquity.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There is no hope for such as I, on earth nor yet in Heaven;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unloved I live, unloved I die, unpitied, unforgiven;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A loathèd jade I ply my trade, unhallowed and unshriven.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I paint my cheeks, for they are white, and cheeks of chalk men hate;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mine eyes with wine I make to shine, that men may seek and sate;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With overhead a lamp of red I sit me down and wait.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Until they come, the nightly scum, with drunken eyes aflame;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your sweethearts, sons, ye scornful ones⁠—’tis I who know their shame;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The gods ye see are brutes to me⁠—and so I play my game.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For life is not the thing we thought, and not the thing we plan;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And woman in a bitter world must do the best she can;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Must yield the stroke, and bear the yoke, and serve the will of man;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Must serve his need and ever feed the flame of his desire;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though be she loved for love alone, or be she loved for hire;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For every man since life began is tainted with the mire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And though you know he love you so, and set you on love’s throne,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet let your eyes but mock his sighs, and let your heart be stone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lest you be left (as I was left) attainted and alone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From love’s close kiss to hell’s abyss is one sheer flight, I trow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wedding-ring and bridal bell are will-o’-wisps of woe;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ’tis not wise to love too well, and this all women know.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Wherefore, the wolf-pack having gorged upon the lamb, their prey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With siren smile and serpent guile I make the wolf-pack pay;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With velvet paws and flensing claws, a tigress roused to slay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One who in youth sought truest truth, and found a devil’s lies;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A symbol of the sin of man, a human sacrifice:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet shall I blame on man the shame? Could it be otherwise?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Was I not born to walk in scorn where others walk in pride?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Maker marred, and evil-starred I drift upon His tide;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And He alone shall judge His own, so I His judgment bide.</span>
			</p>
			<p class="istanza">
				<span>Fate has written a tragedy; its name is “The Human Heart.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The theatre is the House of Life, Woman the mummer’s part:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Devil enters the prompter’s box and the play is ready to start.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-lure-of-little-voices" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Lure of Little Voices</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There’s a cry from out the Loneliness⁠—Oh, listen, Honey, listen!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Do you hear it, do you fear it, you’re a-holding of me so?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’re a-sobbing in your sleep, dear, and your lashes, how they glisten⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Do you hear the Little Voices all a-begging me to go?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>All a-begging me to leave you. Day and night they’re pleading, praying,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the North-wind, on the West-wind, from the peak and from the plain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Night and day they never leave me⁠—do you know what they are saying?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“He was ours before you got him, and we want him once again.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yes, they’re wanting me, they’re haunting me, the awful lonely places;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They’re whining and they’re whimpering as if each had a soul;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They’re calling from the wilderness, the vast and god-like spaces,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The stark and sullen solitudes that sentinel the Pole.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They miss my little camp-fires, ever brightly, bravely gleaming</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the womb of desolation where was never man before;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As comradeless I sought them, lion-hearted, loving, dreaming;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And they hailed me as a comrade, and they loved me evermore.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And now they’re all a-crying, and it’s no use me denying:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The spell of them is on me and I’m helpless as a child;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My heart is aching, aching, but I hear them sleeping, waking;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It’s the Lure of Little Voices, it’s the mandate of the Wild.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I’m afraid to tell you, Honey, I can take no bitter leaving;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But softly in the sleep-time from your love I’ll steal away.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, it’s cruel, dearie, cruel, and it’s God knows how I’m grieving;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But His Loneliness is calling and He knows I must obey.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-song-of-the-wage-slave" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Song of the Wage-Slave</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When the long, long day is over, and the Big Boss gives me my pay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I hope that it won’t be hell-fire, as some of the parsons say.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I hope that it won’t be heaven, with some of the parsons I’ve met⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All I want is just quiet, just to rest and forget.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Look at my face, toil-furrowed; look at my calloused hands;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Master, I’ve done Thy bidding, wrought in Thy many lands⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wrought for the little masters, big-bellied they be, and rich;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ve done their desire for a daily hire, and I die like a dog in a ditch.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have used the strength Thou hast given, Thou knowest I did not shirk;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Threescore years of labour⁠—Thine be the long day’s work.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now, Big Master, I’m broken and bent and twisted and scarred,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I’ve held my job, and Thou knowest, and Thou wilt not judge me hard.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou knowest my sins are many, and often I’ve played the fool⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whiskey and cards and women, they made me the devil’s tool.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I was just like a child with money: I flung it away with a curse,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Feasting a fawning parasite, or glutting a harlot’s purse,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then back to the woods repentant, back to the mill or the mine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I, the worker of workers, everything in my line.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Everything hard but headwork (I’d no more brains than a kid),</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A brute with brute strength to labour, doing as I was bid;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Living in camps with men-folk, a lonely and loveless life;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Never knew kiss of sweetheart, never caress of wife.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A brute with brute strength to labour, and they were so far above⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet I’d gladly have gone to the gallows for one little look of Love.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I with the strength of two men, savage and shy and wild⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet how I’d ha’ treasured a woman, and the sweet, warm kiss of a child.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Well, ’tis Thy world, and Thou knowest. I blaspheme and my ways be rude;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I’ve lived my life as I found it, and I’ve done my best to be good;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I, the primitive toiler, half naked, and grimed to the eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sweating it deep in their ditches, swining it stark in their styes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hulling down forests before me, spanning tumultuous streams;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down in the ditch building o’er me palaces fairer than dreams;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Boring the rock to the ore-bed, driving the road through the fen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Resolute, dumb, uncomplaining, a man in a world of men.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Master, I’ve filled my contract, wrought in Thy many lands;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not by my sins wilt Thou judge me, but by the work of my hands.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Master, I’ve done Thy bidding, and the light is low in the west,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the long, long shift is over … Master, I’ve earned it⁠—Rest.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="grin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Grin</h2>
			<p>
				<span>If you’re up against a bruiser and you’re getting knocked about⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Grin.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If you’re feeling pretty groggy, and you’re licked beyond a doubt⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Grin.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Don’t let him see you’re funking, let him know with every clout,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though your face is battered to a pulp, your blooming heart is stout;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just stand upon your pins until the beggar knocks you out⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">And grin.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This life’s a bally battle, and the same advice holds true,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Of grin.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If you’re up against it badly, then it’s only one on you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">So grin.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If the future’s black as thunder, don’t let people see you’re blue;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just cultivate a cast-iron smile of joy the whole day through;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If they call you “Little Sunshine,” wish that <em>they’d</em> no troubles, too⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">You may⁠—grin.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Rise up in the morning with the will that, smooth or rough,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">You’ll grin.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sink to sleep at midnight, and although you’re feeling tough,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Yet grin.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There’s nothing gained by whining, and you’re not that kind of stuff;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’re a fighter from away back, and you <em>won’t</em> take a rebuff;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your trouble is that you don’t know when you have had enough⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Don’t give in.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If Fate should down you, just get up and take another cuff;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You may bank on it that there is no philosophy like bluff</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">And grin.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-shooting-of-dan-mcgrew" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Shooting of Dan McGrew</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A bunch of the boys were whooping it up in the Malamute saloon;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The kid that handles the music-box was hitting a jag-time tune;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Back of the bar, in a solo game, sat Dangerous Dan McGrew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And watching his luck was his light-o’-love, the lady that’s known as Lou.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When out of the night, which was fifty below, and into the din and the glare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There stumbled a miner fresh from the creeks, dog-dirty and loaded for bear.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He looked like a man with a foot in the grave, and scarcely the strength of a louse,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet he tilted a poke of dust on the bar, and he called for drinks for the house.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There was none could place the stranger’s face, though we searched ourselves for a clue;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But we drank his health, and the last to drink was Dangerous Dan McGrew.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There’s men that somehow just grip your eyes, and hold them hard like a spell;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And such was he, and he looked to me like a man who had lived in hell;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With a face most hair, and the dreary stare of a dog whose day is done,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As he watered the green stuff in his glass, and the drops fell one by one.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then I got to figgering who he was, and wondering what he’d do,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I turned my head⁠—and there watching him was the lady that’s known as Lou.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His eyes went rubbering round the room, and he seemed in a kind of daze,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till at last that old piano fell in the way of his wandering gaze.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The rag-time kid was having a drink; there was no one else on the stool,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So the stranger stumbles across the room, and flops down there like a fool.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a buckskin shirt that was glazed with dirt he sat, and I saw him sway;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then he clutched the keys with his talon hands⁠—my God! but that man could play!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Were you ever out in the Great Alone, when the moon was awful clear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the icy mountains hemmed you in with a silence you most could <em>hear</em>;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With only the howl of a timber wolf, and you camped there in the cold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A half-dead thing in a stark, dead world, clean mad for the muck called gold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While high overhead, green, yellow, and red, the North Lights swept in bars⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then you’ve a haunch what the music meant … hunger and night and the stars.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And hunger not of the belly kind, that’s banished with bacon and beans;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the gnawing hunger of lonely men for a home and all that it means;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For a fireside far from the cares that are, four walls and a roof above;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But oh! so cramful of cosy joy, and crowned with a woman’s love;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A woman dearer than all the world, and true as Heaven is true⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>(God! how ghastly she looks through her rouge⁠—the lady that’s known as Lou.)</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then on a sudden the music changed, so soft that you scarce could hear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But you felt that your life had been looted clean of all that it once held dear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That some one had stolen the woman you loved; that her love was a devil’s lie;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That your guts were gone, and the best for you was to crawl away and die.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Twas the crowning cry of a heart’s despair, and it thrilled you through and through⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I guess I’ll make it a spread misere,” said Dangerous Dan McGrew.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The music almost died away … then it burst like a pent-up flood;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it seemed to say, “Repay, repay,” and my eyes were blind with blood.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The thought came back of an ancient wrong, and it stung like a frozen lash,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the lust awoke to kill, to kill … then the music stopped with a crash,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the stranger turned, and his eyes they burned in a most peculiar way;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a buckskin shirt that was glazed with dirt he sat, and I saw him sway;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then his lips went in in a kind of grin, and he spoke, and his voice was calm;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, “Boys,” says he, “you don’t know me, and none of you care a damn;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I want to state, and my words are straight, and I’ll bet my poke they’re true,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That one of you is a hound of hell … and that one is Dan McGrew.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then I ducked my head, and the lights went out, and two guns blazed in the dark;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a woman screamed, and the lights went up, and two men lay stiff and stark;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pitched on his head, and pumped full of lead, was Dangerous Dan McGrew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the man from the creeks lay clutched to the breast of the lady that’s known as Lou.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>These are the simple facts of the case, and I guess I ought to know;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They say that the stranger was crazed with “hooch,” and I’m not denying it’s so.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’m not so wise as the lawyer guys, but strictly between us two⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The woman that kissed him and⁠—pinched his poke⁠—was the lady that’s known as Lou.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-cremation-of-sam-mcgee" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Cremation of Sam McGee</h2>
			<p class="istanza">
				<span>There are strange things done in the midnight sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By the men who moil for gold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Arctic trails have their secret tales</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That would make your blood run cold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Northern Lights have seen queer sights,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But the queerest they ever did see</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was that night on the marge of Lake Lebarge</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I cremated Sam McGee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now Sam McGee was from Tennessee, where the cotton blooms and blows.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why he left his home in the South to roam round the Pole God only knows.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He was always cold, but the land of gold seemed to hold him like a spell;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though he’d often say in his homely way that he’d “sooner live in hell.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On a Christmas Day we were mushing our way over the Dawson trail.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Talk of your cold! through the parka’s fold it stabbed like a driven nail.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If our eyes we’d close, then the lashes froze, till sometimes we couldn’t see;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It wasn’t much fun, but the only one to whimper was Sam McGee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And that very night as we lay packed tight in our robes beneath the snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the dogs were fed, and the stars o’erhead were dancing heel and toe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He turned to me, and, “Cap,” says he, “I’ll cash in this trip, I guess;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And if I do, I’m asking that you won’t refuse my last request.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Well, he seemed so low that I couldn’t say no: then he says with a sort of moan:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“It’s the cursèd cold, and it’s got right hold till I’m chilled clean through to the bone.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet ‘taint being dead, it’s my awful dread of the icy grave that pains:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So I want you to swear that, foul or fair, you’ll cremate my last remains.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A pal’s last need is a thing to heed, so I swore I would not fail;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we started on at the streak of dawn, but God! he looked ghastly pale.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He crouched on the sleigh, and he raved all day of his home in Tennessee;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And before nightfall a corpse was all that was left of Sam McGee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There wasn’t a breath in that land of death, and I hurried, horror driven,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With a corpse half-hid that I couldn’t get rid because of a promise given;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was lashed to the sleigh, and it seemed to say: “You may tax your brawn and brains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But you promised true, and it’s up to you to cremate those last remains.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now a promise made is a debt unpaid, and the trail has its own stern code.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the days to come, though my lips were dumb, in my heart how I cursed that load.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the long, long night, by the lone firelight, while the huskies, round in a ring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Howled out their woes to the homeless snows⁠—O God! how I loathed the thing!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And every day that quiet clay seemed to heavy and heavier grow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And on I went, though the dogs were spent and the grub was getting low;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The trail was bad, and I felt half mad, but I swore I would not give in;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I’d often sing to the hateful thing, and it hearkened with a grin.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Till I came to the marge of Lake Lebarge, and a derelict there lay;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was jammed in the ice, but I saw in a trice it was called the “Alice May.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I looked at it, and I thought a bit, and I looked at my frozen chum:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then, “Here,” said I, with a sudden cry, “is my cre-ma-tor-eum.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Some planks I tore from the cabin floor, and I lit the boiler fire;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some coal I found that was lying around, and I heaped the fuel higher;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The flames just soared, and the furnace roared⁠—such a blaze you seldom see;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I burrowed a hole in the glowing coal, and I stuffed in Sam McGee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then I made a hike, for I didn’t like to hear him sizzle so;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the heavens scowled, and the huskies howled, and the wind began to blow.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was icy cold, but the hot sweat rolled down my cheeks, and I don’t know why;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the greasy smoke in an inky cloak went streaking down the sky.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I do not know how long in the snow I wrestled with grisly fear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the stars came out and they danced about ere again I ventured near;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I was sick with dread, but I bravely said: “I’ll just take a peep inside.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I guess he’s cooked, and it’s time I looked,” … then the door I opened wide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And there sat Sam, looking cool and calm, in the heart of the furnace roar;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he wore a smile you could see a mile, and he said: “Please close that door.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It’s fine in here, but I greatly fear you’ll let in the cold and storm⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Since I left Plumtree, down in Tennessee, it’s the first time I’ve been warm.”</span>
			</p>
			<p class="istanza">
				<span>There are strange things done in the midnight sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By the men who moil for gold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Arctic trails have their secret tales</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That would make your blood run cold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Northern Lights have seen queer sights,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But the queerest they ever did see</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was that night on the marge of Lake Lebarge</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I cremated Sam McGee.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="my-madonna" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">My Madonna</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I haled me a woman from the street,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shameless, but, oh, so fair!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I bade her sit in the model’s seat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And I painted her sitting there.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">I hid all trace of her heart unclean;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">I painted a babe at her breast;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">I painted her as she might have been</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">If the Worst had been the Best.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She laughed at my picture, and went away.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Then came, with a knowing nod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A connoisseur, and I heard him say:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“ ’Tis Mary, the Mother of God.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">So I painted a halo round her hair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And I sold her, and took my fee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And she hangs in the church of Saint Hilaire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Where you and all may see.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="unforgotten" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Unforgotten</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I know a garden where the lilies gleam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And one who lingers in the sunshine there;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She is than white-stoled lily far more fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And oh, her eyes are heaven-lit with dream.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">I know a garret, cold and dark and drear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And one who toils and toils with tireless pen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Until his brave, sad eyes grow weary⁠—then</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">He seeks the stars, pale, silent as a seer.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And ah, it’s strange, for desolate and dim</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Between these two there rolls an ocean wide;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Yet he is in the garden by her side,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she is in the garret there with him.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-reckoning" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Reckoning</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It’s fine to have a blow-out in a fancy restaurant,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With terrapin and canvas-back and all the wine you want;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To enjoy the flowers and music, watch the pretty women pass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Smoke a choice cigar, and sip the wealthy water in your glass;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It’s bully in a high-toned joint to eat and drink your fill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But it’s quite another matter when you</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Pay the bill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It’s great to go out every night on fun or pleasure bent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To wear your glad rags always, and to never save a cent;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To drift along regardless, have a good time every trip;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To hit the high spots sometimes, and to let your chances slip;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To know you’re acting foolish, yet to go on fooling still,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till Nature calls a show-down, and you</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Pay the bill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Time has got a little bill⁠—get wise while yet you may,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the debit side’s increasing in a most alarming way;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The things you had no right to do, the things you should have done,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They’re all put down: it’s up to you to pay for every one.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So eat, drink, and be merry, have a good time if you will,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But God help you when the time comes, and you</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Foot the bill.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="quatrains" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Quatrains</h2>
			<p>
				<span>One said: Thy life is thine to make or mar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To flicker feebly, or to soar, a star;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It lies with thee⁠—the choice is thine, is thine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To hit the ties or drive thy auto-car.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I answer Her: The choice is mine⁠—ah, no!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We all were made or marred long, long ago.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The parts are written: hear the super wail:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Who is stage-managing this cosmic show?”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Blind fools of fate, and slaves of circumstance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Life is a fiddler, and we all must dance.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From gloom where mocks that will-o’-wisp, Freewill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I heard a voice cry: “Say, give us a chance.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Chance! Oh, there is no chance. The scene is set.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Up with the curtain! Man, the marionette,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Resumes his part. The gods will work the wires.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They’ve got it all down fine, you bet, you bet!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It’s all decreed: the mighty earthquake crash;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The countless constellations’ wheel and flash;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The rise and fall of empires, war’s red tide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The composition of your dinner hash.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There’s no haphazard in this world of ours:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cause and effect are grim, relentless powers.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They rule the world. (A king was shot last night.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Last night I held the joker and both bowers.)</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From out the mesh of fate our heads we thrust.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We can’t do what we would, but what we must.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Heredity has got us in a cinch.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>(Consoling thought, when you’ve been on a “bust.”)</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Hark to the song where spheral voices blend:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“There’s no beginning, never will be end.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It makes us nutty; hang the astral chimes!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The table’s spread; come, let us dine, my friend.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-men-that-dont-fit-in" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Men That Don’t Fit In</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There’s a race of men that don’t fit in,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A race that can’t stay still;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So they break the hearts of kith and kin,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And they roam the world at will.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They range the field and they rove the flood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And they climb the mountain’s crest;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Theirs is the curse of the gipsy blood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And they don’t know how to rest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">If they just went straight they might go far;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">They are strong and brave and true;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">But they’re always tired of the things that are,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And they want the strange and new.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">They say: “Could I find my proper groove,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">What a deep mark I would make!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">So they chop and change, and each fresh move</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Is only a fresh mistake.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And each forgets, as he strips and runs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With a brilliant, fitful pace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It’s the steady, quiet, plodding ones</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who win in the lifelong race.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And each forgets that his youth has fled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Forgets that his prime is past,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till he stands one day with a hope that’s dead</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the glare of the truth at last.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">He has failed, he has failed; he has missed his chance;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">He has just done things by half.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Life’s been a jolly good joke on him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And now is the time to laugh.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Ha, ha! He is one of the Legion Lost;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">He was never meant to win;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">He’s a rolling stone, and it’s bred in the bone;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">He’s a man who won’t fit in.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="music-in-the-bush" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Music in the Bush</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O’er the dark pines she sees the silver moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And in the west, all tremulous, a star;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And soothing sweet she hears the mellow tune</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of cow-bells jangled in the fields afar.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Quite listless, for her daily stent is done,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She stands, sad exile, at her rose-wreathed door,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sends her love eternal with the sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That goes to gild the land she’ll see no more.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The grave, gaunt pines imprison her sad gaze,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All still the sky and darkling drearily;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She feels the chilly breath of dear, dead days</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Come sifting through the alders eerily.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, how the roses riot in their bloom!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The curtains stir as with an ancient pain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her old piano gleams from out the gloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And waits and waits her tender touch in vain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But now her hands like moonlight brush the keys</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With velvet grace, melodious delight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now a sad refrain from overseas</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Goes sobbing on the bosom of the night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And now she sings. (O singer in the gloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Voicing a sorrow we can ne’er express,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here in the Farness where we few have room</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unshamed to show our love and tenderness,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our hearts will echo, till they beat no more,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That song of sadness and of motherland;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And stretched in deathless love to England’s shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Some day she’ll hearken and she’ll understand.)</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A prima-donna in the shining past,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But now a mother growing old and grey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She thinks of how she held a people fast</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In thrall, and gleaned the triumphs of a day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She sees a sea of faces like a dream;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She sees herself a queen of song once more;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She sees lips part in rapture, eyes agleam;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She sings as never once she sang before.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She sings a wild, sweet song that throbs with pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The added pain of life that transcends art,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A song of home, a deep, celestial strain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The glorious swan-song of a dying heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A lame tramp comes along the railway track,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A grizzled dog whose day is nearly done:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He passes, pauses, then comes slowly back</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And listens there⁠—an audience of one.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She sings⁠—her golden voice is passion-fraught</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As when she charmed a thousand eager ears;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He listens trembling, and she knows it not,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And down his hollow cheeks roll bitter tears.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She ceases and is still, as if to pray;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">There is no sound, the stars are all alight⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Only a wretch who stumbles on his way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Only a vagrant sobbing in the night.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-rhyme-of-the-remittance-man" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Rhyme of the Remittance Man</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There’s a four-pronged buck a-swinging in the shadow of my cabin,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And it roamed the velvet valley till to-day;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I tracked it by the river, and I trailed it in the cover,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And I killed it on the mountain miles away.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now I’ve had my lazy supper, and the level sun is gleaming</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the water where the silver salmon play;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I light my little corn-cob, and I linger softly dreaming,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the twilight, of a land that’s far away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Far away, so faint and far, is flaming London, fevered Paris,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That I fancy I have gained another star;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Far away the din and hurry, far away the sin and worry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Far away⁠—God knows they cannot be too far.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gilded galley-slaves of Mammon⁠—how my purse-proud brothers taunt me!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I might have been as well-to-do as they</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had I clutched like them my chances, learned their wisdom, crushed my fancies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Starved my soul and gone to business every day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Well, the cherry bends with blossom, and the vivid grass is springing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the star-like lily nestles in the green;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the frogs their joys are singing, and my heart in tune is ringing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And it doesn’t matter what I might have been,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While above the scented pine-gloom, piling heights of golden glory,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The sun-god paints his canvas in the west;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I can couch me deep in clover, I can listen to the story</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the lazy, lapping water⁠—it is best.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the trout leaps in the river, and the blue grouse thrills the cover,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the frozen snow betrays the panther’s track,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the robin greets the dayspring with the rapture of a lover,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I am happy, and I’ll nevermore go back.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For I know I’d just be longing for the little old log cabin,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With the morning-glory clinging to the door,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till I loathed the city places, cursed the care on all the faces,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Turned my back on lazar London evermore.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So send me far from Lombard Street, and write me down a failure;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Put a little in my purse and leave me free.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Say: “He turned from Fortune’s offering to follow up a pale lure,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He is one of us no longer⁠—let him be.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am one of you no longer: by the trails my feet have broken,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The dizzy peaks I’ve scaled, the camp-fire’s glow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By the lonely seas I’ve sailed in⁠—yea, the final word is spoken,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I am signed and sealed to nature. Be it so.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-low-down-white" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Low-Down White</h2>
			<p>
				<span>This is the pay-day up at the mines, when the bearded brutes come down;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There’s money to burn in the streets to-night, so I’ve sent my klooch to town,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With a haggard face and a ribband of red entwined in her hair of brown.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And I know at the dawn she’ll come reeling home with the bottles, one, two, three;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One for herself to drown her shame, and two big bottles for me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To make me forget the thing I am and the man I used to be.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To make me forget the brand of the dog, as I crouch in this hideous place;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To make me forget once I kindled the light of love in a lady’s face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where even the squalid Siwash now holds me a black disgrace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, I have guarded my secret well! And who would dream as I speak</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a tribal tongue like a rogue unhung, ’mid the ranch-house filth and reek,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I could roll to bed with a Latin phrase, and rise with a verse of Greek?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yet I was a senior prizeman once, and the pride of a college eight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Called to the bar⁠—my friends were true! but they could not keep me straight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then came the divorce, and I went abroad and “died” on the River Plate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But I’m not dead yet; though with half a lung there isn’t time to spare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I hope that the year will see me out, and, thank God, no one will care⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Save maybe the little slim Siwash girl with the rose of shame in her hair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She will come with the dawn, and the dawn is near; I can see its evil glow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a corpse-light seen through a frosty pane in a night of want and woe;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yonder she comes, by the bleak bull-pines, swift staggering through the snow.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-little-old-log-cabin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Little Old Log Cabin</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When a man gits on his uppers in a hard-pan sort of town,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">An’ he ain’t got nothin’ comin’, an’ he can’t afford ter eat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ he’s in a fix fer lodgin’, an’ he wanders up an’ down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">An’ you’d fancy he’d been boozin’, he’s so locoed ’bout the feet;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he’s feelin’ sneakin’ sorry, an’ his belt is hangin’ slack,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">An’ his face is peaked an’ grey-like, an’ his heart gits down an’ whines,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then he’s apt ter git a-thinkin’ an’ a-wishin’ he was back</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the little ol’ log cabin in the shadder of the pines.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When he’s on the blazin’ desert, an’ his canteen’s sprung a leak,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">An’ he’s all alone an’ crazy, an’ he’s crawlin’ like a snail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ his tongue’s so black an’ swollen that it hurts him fer to speak,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">An’ he gouges down fer water, an’ the raven’s on his trail;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he’s done with care and cursin’, an’ he feels more like to cry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">An’ he sees ol’ Death a-grinnin’, an’ he thinks upon his crimes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then he’s like ter hev’ a vision, as he settles down ter die,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the little ol’ log cabin an’ the roses an’ the vines.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, the little ol’ log cabin, it’s a solemn shinin’ mark</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When a feller gits ter sinnin’, an’ a-goin’ ter the wall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ folks don’t understand him, an’ he’s gropin’ in the dark,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">An’ he’s sick of bein’ cursed at, an’ he’s longin’ fer his call:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the sun of life’s a-sinkin’ you can see it ’way above,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the hill from out the shadder in a glory ’gin the sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ your mother’s voice is callin’, an’ her arms are stretched in love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">An’ somehow you’re glad you’re goin’, an’ you ain’t a-scared to die;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When you’ll be like a kid again, an’ nestle to her breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">An’ never leave its shelter, an’ forget, an’ love, an’ rest.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-younger-son" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Younger Son</h2>
			<p>
				<span>If you leave the gloom of London and you seek a glowing land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where all except the flag is strange and new,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There’s a bronzed and stalwart fellow who will grip you by the hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And greet you with a welcome warm and true;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For he’s your younger brother, the one you sent away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Because there wasn’t room for him at home;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now he’s quite contented, and he’s glad he didn’t stay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And he’s building Britain’s greatness o’er the foam.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When the giant herd is moving at the rising of the sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the prairie is lit with rose and gold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the camp is all a-bustle, and the busy day’s begun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He leaps into the saddle sure and bold.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through the round of heat and hurry, through the racket and the rout,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He rattles at a pace that nothing mars;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when the night-winds whisper, and camp-fires flicker out,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He is sleeping like a child beneath the stars.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When the wattle-blooms are drooping in the sombre she-oak glade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the breathless land is lying in a swoon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He leaves his work a moment, leaning lightly on his spade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And he hears the bell-bird chime the Austral noon.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The parakeets are silent in the gum-tree by the creek;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The ferny grove is sunshine-steeped and still;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the dew will gem the myrtle in the twilight ere he seek</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His little lonely cabin on the hill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Around the purple, vine-clad slope the argent river dreams;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The roses almost hide the house from view;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A snow-peak of the Winterberg in crimson splendour gleams;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The shadow deepens down on the karroo.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He seeks the lily-scented dusk beneath the orange-tree:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His pipe in silence glows and fades and glows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then two little maids come out and climb upon his knee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And one is like the lily, one the rose.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He sees his white sheep dapple o’er the green New Zealand plain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And where Vancouver’s shaggy ramparts frown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the sunlight threads the pine-gloom he is fighting might and main</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To clinch the rivets of an Empire down.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You will find him toiling, toiling, in the south or in the west,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A child of nature, fearless, frank and free;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the warmest heart that beats for you is beating in his breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And he sends you loyal greeting o’er the sea.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You’ve a brother in the Army, you’ve another in the Church;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">One of you is a diplomatic swell;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’ve had the pick of everything and left him in the lurch;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And yet I think he’s doing very well.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’m sure his life is happy, and he doesn’t envy yours;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I know he loves the land his pluck has won;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I fancy in the years unborn, while England’s fame endures,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She will come to bless with pride⁠—the Younger Son.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-march-of-the-dead" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The March of the Dead</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The cruel war was over⁠—oh, the triumph was so sweet!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We watched the troops returning, through our tears;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There was triumph, triumph, triumph down the scarlet glittering street,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And you scarce could hear the music for the cheers.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you scarce could see the house-tops for the flags that flew between,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The bells were pealing madly to the sky;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And every one was shouting for the Soldiers of the Queen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the glory of an age was passing by.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And then there came a shadow, swift and sudden, dark and drear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The bells were silent, not an echo stirred.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The flags were drooping sullenly, the men forgot to cheer;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We waited, and we never spoke a word.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sky grew darker, darker, till from out the gloomy rack</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">There came a voice that checked the heart with dread:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Tear down, tear down your bunting now, and hang up sable black;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They are coming⁠—it’s the Army of the Dead.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They were coming, they were coming, gaunt and ghastly, sad and slow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They were coming, all the crimson wrecks of pride;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With faces seared, and cheeks red smeared, and haunting eyes of woe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And clotted holes the khaki couldn’t hide.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, the clammy brow of anguish! the livid, foam-flecked lips!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The reeling ranks of ruin swept along!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The limb that trailed, the hand that failed, the bloody finger-tips!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And oh, the dreary rhythm of their song!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“They left us on the veldt-side, but we felt we couldn’t stop,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On this, our England’s crowning festal day;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We’re the men of Magersfontein, we’re the men of Spion Kop,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Colenso⁠—we’re the men who had to pay.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We’re the men who paid the blood-price. Shall the grave be all our gain?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You owe us. Long and heavy is the score.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then cheer us for our glory now, and cheer us for our pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And cheer us as ye never cheered before.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The folks were white and stricken, and each tongue seemed weighed with lead;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Each heart was clutched in hollow hand of ice;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And every eye was staring at the horror of the dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The pity of the men who paid the price.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They were come, were come to mock us, in the first flush of our peace;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through writhing lips their teeth were all agleam;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They were coming in their thousands⁠—oh, would they never cease!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I closed my eyes, and then⁠—it was a dream.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There was triumph, triumph, triumph down the scarlet gleaming street;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The town was mad, a man was like a boy.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A thousand flags were flaming where the sky and city meet;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A thousand bells were thundering the joy.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There was music, mirth and sunshine; but some eyes shone with regret:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And while we stun with cheers our homing braves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O God, in Thy great mercy, let us nevermore forget</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The graves they left behind, the bitter graves.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fighting-mac" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span>“Fighting Mac.”</span>
				<span epub:type="subtitle">A Life Tragedy.</span>
			</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A pistol-shot rings round and round the world:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In pitiful defeat a warrior lies.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A last defiance to dark Death is hurled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A last wild challenge shocks the sunlit skies.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Alone he falls with wide, wan, woeful eyes:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Eyes that could smile at death⁠—could not face shame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Alone, alone he paced his narrow room,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the bright sunshine of that Paris day;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Saw in his thought the awful hand of doom;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Saw in his dream his glory pass away;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Tried in his heart, his weary heart, to pray:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“O God! who made me, give me strength to face</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The spectre of this bitter, black disgrace.”</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>The burn brawls darkly down the shaggy glen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The bee-kissed heather blooms around the door;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He sees himself a barefoot boy again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bending o’er page of legendary lore.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He hears the pibroch, grips the red claymore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Runs with the Fiery Cross a clansman true,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sworn kinsman of Rob Roy and Roderick Dhu.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Eating his heart out with a wild desire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">One day, behind his counter trim and neat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He hears a sound that sets his brain afire⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The Highlanders are marching down the street.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Oh, how the pipes shrill out, the mad drums beat!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“On to the gates of Hell, my Gordons gay!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He flings his hated yardstick far away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He sees the sullen pass, high-crowned with snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where Afghans cower with eyes of gleaming hate.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He hurls himself against the hidden foe.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They try to rally⁠—ah, too late, too late!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Again, defenceless, with fierce eyes that wait</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For death, he stands, like baited bull at bay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And flouts the Boers, that mad Majuba day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He sees again the murderous Soudan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Blood-slaked and rapine swept. He seems to stand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon the gory plain of Omdurman.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Then Magersfontein, and supreme command</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Over his Highlanders. To shake his hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A King is proud, and princes call him friend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And glory crowns his life⁠—and now the end.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The awful end. His eyes are dark with doom;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He hears the shrapnel shrieking overhead:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He sees the ravaged ranks, the flame-stabbed gloom.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Oh, to have fallen! the battle-field his bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With Wauchope and his glorious brother-dead.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why was he saved for this, for this? And now</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He raises the revolver to his brow.</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>In many a Highland home, framed with rude art,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You’ll find his portrait, rough-hewn, stern and square:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It’s graven in the Fuyam fellah’s heart;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The Ghurka reads it at his evening prayer;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The raw lands know it, where the fierce suns glare;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Dervish fears it. Honour to his name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who holds aloft the shield of England’s fame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Mourn for our hero, men of Northern race!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We do not know his sin; we only know</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His sword was keen. He laughed death in the face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And struck, for Empire’s sake, a giant blow.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His arm was strong. Ah! well they learnt, the foe.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The echo of his deeds is ringing yet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will ring for aye. All else … let us forget.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-woman-and-the-angel" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Woman and the Angel</h2>
			<p>
				<span>An angel was tired of heaven, as he lounged in the golden street;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His halo was tilted sideways, and his harp lay mute at his feet;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So the Master stooped in His pity, and gave him a pass to go,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the space of a moon, to the earth-world, to mix with the men below.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He doffed his celestial garments, scarce waiting to lay them straight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He bade goodbye to Peter, who stood by the golden gate;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sexless singers of heaven chanted a fond farewell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the imps looked up as they pattered on the red-hot flags of hell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Never was seen such an angel: eyes of a heavenly blue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Features that shamed Apollo, hair of a golden hue;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The women simply adored him, his lips were like Cupid’s bow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he never ventured to use them⁠—and so they voted him slow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Till at last there came One Woman, a marvel of loveliness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she whispered to him: “Do you love me?” And he answered that woman, “Yes.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she said: “Put your arms around me, and kiss me, and hold me⁠—so⁠—”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But fiercely he drew back, saying: “This thing is wrong, and I know.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then sweetly she mocked his scruples, and softly she him beguiled:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“You, who are verily man among men, speak with the tongue of a child.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We have outlived the old standards; we have burst, like an over-tight thong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The ancient, outworn, puritanic traditions of Right and Wrong.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then the Master feared for His angel, and called him again to His side,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For oh, the woman was wondrous, and oh, the angel was tried.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And deep in his hell sang the Devil, and this was the strain of his song:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“The ancient, outworn, puritanic traditions of Right and Wrong.”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-rhyme-of-the-restless-ones" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Rhyme of the Restless Ones</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We couldn’t sit and study for the law;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The stagnation of a bank we couldn’t stand;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For our riot blood was surging, and we didn’t need much urging</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To excitements and excesses that are banned.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So we took to wine and drink and other things,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the devil in us struggled to be free;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till our friends rose up in wrath, and they pointed out the path,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And they paid our debts and packed us o’er the sea.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, they shook us off and shipped us o’er the foam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the larger lands that lure a man to roam;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And we took the chance they gave</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Of a far and foreign grave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we bade goodbye for evermore to home.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And some of us are climbing on the peak,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And some of us are camping on the plain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By pine and palm you’ll find us, with never claim to bind us,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By track and trail you’ll meet us once again.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We are fated serfs to freedom⁠—sky and sea;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We have failed where slummy cities overflow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the stranger ways of earth know our pride and know our worth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And we go into the dark as fighters go.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yes, we go into the night as brave men go,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though our faces they be often streaked with woe;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Yet we’re hard as cats to kill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And our hearts are reckless still,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we’ve danced with death a dozen times or so.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And you’ll find us in Alaska after gold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And you’ll find us herding cattle in the South.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We like strong drink and fun; and when the race is run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We often die with curses in our mouth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We are wild as colts unbroke, but never mean;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of our sins we’ve shoulders broad to bear the blame;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But we’ll never stay in town, and we’ll never settle down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And we’ll never have an object or an aim.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No, there’s that in us that time can never tame;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And life will always seem a careless game;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And they’d better far forget⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Those who say they love us yet⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forget, blot out with bitterness our name.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="new-years-eve" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">New Year’s Eve</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It’s cruel cold on the water-front, silent and dark and drear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Only the black tide weltering, only the hissing snow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I, alone, like a storm-tossed wreck, on this night of the glad New Year,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shuffling along in the icy wind, ghastly and gaunt and slow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They’re playing a tune in McGuffy’s saloon, and it’s cheery and bright in there</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(God! but I’m weak⁠—since the bitter dawn, and never a bite of food);</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ll just go over and slip inside⁠—I mustn’t give way to despair⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Perhaps I can bum a little booze if the boys are feeling good.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They’ll jeer at me, and they’ll sneer at me, and they’ll call me a whiskey soak;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(“Have a drink? Well, thankee kindly, sir, I don’t mind if I do.”)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A drivelling, dirty gin-joint fiend, the butt of the bar-room joke;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sunk and sodden and hopeless⁠—“Another? Well, here’s to you!”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>McGuffy is showing a bunch of the boys how Bob Fitzsimmons hit;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The barman is talking of Tammany Hall, and why the ward boss got fired;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ll just sneak into a corner, and they’ll let me alone a bit;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The room is reeling round and round … O God, but I’m tired, I’m tired. …</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>Roses she wore on her breast that night. Oh, but their scent was sweet;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Alone we sat on the balcony, and the fan-palms arched above;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The witching strain of a waltz by Strauss came up to our cool retreat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And I prisoned her little hand in mine, and I whispered my plea of love.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then sudden the laughter died on her lips, and lowly she bent her head;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And oh, there came in the deep, dark eyes a look that was heaven to see</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the moments went, and I waited there, and never a word was said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And she plucked from her bosom a rose of red, and shyly gave it to me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then the music swelled to a crash of joy, and the lights blazed up like day;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And I held her fast to my throbbing heart, and I kissed her bonny brow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“She is mine, she is mine for evermore!” the violins seemed to say,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the bells were ringing the New Year in⁠—O God! I can hear them now.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Don’t you remember that long, last waltz, with its sobbing, sad refrain?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Don’t you remember that last goodbye, and the dear eyes dim with tears?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Don’t you remember that golden dream, with never a hint of pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of lives that would blend like an angel-song in the bliss of the coming year?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, what have I lost! What have I lost! Ethel, forgive, forgive!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The red, red rose is faded now, and it’s fifty years ago.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Twere better to die a thousand deaths than live each day as I live!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I have sinned, I have sunk to the lowest depths⁠—but oh, I have suffered so!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Hark! Oh hark! I can hear the bells! … Look! I can see her there,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fair as a dream … but it fades … And now⁠—I can hear the dreadful hum</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the crowded court … See! the Judge looks down … <strong>Not Guilty</strong>, my Lord, I swear …</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The bells, I can hear the bells again … Ethel, I come, I come! …</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>“Rouse up, old man, it’s twelve o’clock. You can’t sleep here, you know.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Say! ain’t you got no sentiment? Lift up your muddled head;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have a drink to the glad New Year, a drop before you go⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You darned old dirty hobo … My God! Here, boys! He’s <strong>dead</strong>!”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="comfort" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Comfort</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Say! You’ve struck a heap of trouble⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bust in business, lost your wife;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No one cares a cent about you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You don’t care a cent for life;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hard luck has of hope bereft you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Health is failing, wish you’d die⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why, you’ve still the sunshine left you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the big, blue sky.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">Sky so blue it makes you wonder</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">If it’s heaven shining through;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Earth so smiling ’way out yonder,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Sun so bright it dazzles you;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Birds a-singing, flowers a-flinging</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">All their fragrance on the breeze;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Dancing shadows, green, still meadows⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Don’t you mope, you’ve still got these.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>These, and none can take them from you;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">These, and none can weigh their worth.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What! you’re tired and broke and beaten?⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Why, you’re rich⁠—you’ve got the earth!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yes, if you’re a tramp in tatters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">While the blue sky bends above,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’ve got nearly all that matters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You’ve got God, and God is love.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="premonition" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Premonition</h2>
			<p>
				<span>’Twas a year ago and the moon was bright</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(Oh, I remember so well, so well),</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I walked with my love in a sea of light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the voice of my sweet was a silver bell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">And sudden the moon grew strangely dull,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And sudden my love had taken wing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">I looked on the face of a grinning skull,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">I strained to my heart a ghastly thing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>’Twas but fantasy, for my love lay still</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In my arms with her tender eyes aglow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she wondered why my lips were chill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Why I was silent and kissed her so.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">A year has gone and the moon is bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">A gibbous moon like a ghost of woe;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">I sit by a new-made grave to-night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And my heart is broken⁠—it’s strange, you know.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-tramps" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Tramps</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Can you recall, dear comrade, when we tramped God’s land together,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And we sang the old, old Earth-song, for our youth was very sweet;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When we drank and fought and lusted, as we mocked at tie and tether,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Along the road to Anywhere, the wide world at our feet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Along the road to Anywhere, when each day had its story;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When time was yet our vassal, and life’s jest was still unstale;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When peace unfathomed filled our hearts as, bathed in amber glory,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Along the road to Anywhere we watched the sunsets pale.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Alas! the road to Anywhere is pitfalled with disaster;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">There’s hunger, want, and weariness, yet O we loved it so!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As on we tramped exultantly, and no man was our master,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And no man guessed what dreams were ours, as swinging heel and toe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We tramped the road to Anywhere, the magic road to Anywhere,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The tragic road to Anywhere, such dear, dim years ago.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="l-envoi" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">L’Envoi</h2>
			<p class="istanza">
				<span>You who have lived in the Land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You who have trusted the trail;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You who are strong to withstand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You who are swift to assail;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Songs have I sung to beguile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Vintage of desperate years</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hard as a harlot’s smile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bitter as unshed tears.</span>
			</p>
			<p class="istanza">
				<span class="i4">Little of joy or mirth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Little of ease I sing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Sagas of men of earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Humanly suffering,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Such as you all have done;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Savagely faring forth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Sons of the midnight sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Argonauts of the North.</span>
			</p>
			<p class="istanza">
				<span>Far in the land God forgot</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Glimmers the lure of your trail;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Still in your lust are you taught</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Even to win is to fail.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Still must you follow and fight</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Under the vampire wing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There in the long, long night</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hoping and vanquishing.</span>
			</p>
			<p class="istanza">
				<span class="i4">Husbandmen of the Wild,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Reaping a barren gain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Scourged by desire, reconciled</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Unto disaster and pain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">These my songs are for you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">You who are seared with the brand:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">God knows I have tried to be true;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Please God you will understand.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
